i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 18 december 2014.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet as bad as it was in the former yugoslavia. these cartoonists, journalists, police officers, ordinary employees, ordinary citizens of the jewish faith died because they defended and embodied what the fanatics do not want to see: criticism, humor, satire, freedom of expression, our "living together" beyond opinions and confessions, our right to live together in safety, our freedom simply. today we must fear that journalists and cartoonists will censor themselves, that the irreverence of the pencils will be silenced by the violence of the guns. we must fear again that french jews feel threatened at home in france and in europe. we must fear that any muslim is suspected, by irresponsible amalgam. we must fear that fear of the other is being stirred up to destabilize our society. we must fear it because if it happens, the terrorists will have won and we will have lost our freedom. ladies and gentlemen, we representatives of this parliament also embody everything that these fanatics hate: peaceful cooperation between men and women who are sometimes separated by everything. together, we must fight to never allow ourselves to be contaminated by the hatred of terrorists. we must defend freedom for all in europe and the world. that is why we are also paying tribute today to the many victims of the fanatics of boko haram in nigeria. this is a time of great sadness but we must proceed with caution. let me quote the former norwegian prime minister, jens stoltenberg, who said after the oslo attacks in utoya: "we will respond to terror with more democracy, more openness and tolerance". let these words guide our work in this house. i ask you, colleagues, to rise for a minute's silence in memory of the victims. thank you very much.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 8 december 2015 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday/tuesday: no change wednesday: the green group requests that a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative on the latest atrocities in northern nigeria be placed on the agenda. the debate is to be closed by a resolution.
does anyone want to speak out against this? that's not the case. i would like to ask you, mrs hautala, whether you agree with mr guerrero's proposal that we first hear a statement and then take the resolution at the next part-session.
we have already voted on it. moreover, mrs mogherini is here full-time on wednesday, so i think it makes sense to hear the high representative's statement on wednesday. we shall try to put the item on the agenda in such a way that as many colleagues as possible can take part. thursday: no change (the work schedule is therefore adopted).
ladies and gentlemen, i have some more sad news for you. on 19 december our colleague philip bradbourn died at the age of 63 after a serious illness. mr bradbourn has been a member of this house since 1999. he represented - and those who knew him can attest to this - his region, the west midlands, with great pride. philip bradbourn began his political career after working for over 20 years as a town planner. i have already expressed our sincere condolences to his friends on behalf of the european parliament. i want to do that again at this point. the european parliament will not forget mr bradbourn. on 26 december last year, leo tindemans died at the age of 92 at his home near antwerp. deeply affected by the brutal occupation of his homeland by the nazis, who forced him to flee as a young man of eighteen, tindemans worked tirelessly for peace in europe throughout his life - as a member of the belgian parliament, as prime minister of the kingdom of belgium, as his country's foreign minister and as a member of the european parliament. in the first direct elections to the european parliament, tindemans was elected in belgium with such a majority that the newspapers even then called him 'mister europe'. i think leo tindemans was right to be called that. he was certainly a great european. i would like to express to his family our sincere condolences on behalf of the european parliament. we will honor the memory of leo tindeman. i ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to rise in honor of philip bradbourn and leo tindemans. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
i have to say, madam president, i'm going to tell you about an experience in my brussels office that i'm sure many of you will share. i am distracted by the intense tension in front of my computer: the light goes out, i jump up, i try to reach the switch, and i stumble over the drawer of my desk. the lights are magically coming back on. after half an hour, the same game. now i understand, my congressman's office has an invisible motion detector installed. i think he's supposed to check to see if there's anyone else in the room or if someone forgot to turn off the lights. i don't know if it's really saving electricity. but perhaps the deeper meaning is that we have to move, stand up and row with our hands to signal that we're there. if that is what is wanted, madam president, that we do sports in our parliamentary offices in the evening, then i would suggest that we reduce the rhythm from half an hour to a quarter of an hour so that we can do more evening sports.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to express my deep respect for the journalists and cartoonists who were murdered in paris for their service to our liberal society, for the policemen who were murdered in the line of duty for their country, and for other victims who were murdered because they are part of our society that hates these terrorists so much. my condolences to the families and friends of the victims. i am concerned about a europe which is at present more concerned with blaming each other for this unfathomable crime than with standing up and taking decisive action against a small but all the more radical minority. because the common values seem to have largely disappeared and it is rather discussing what values they might be. what we need is a discussion about our common values and an affirmation of our common values so that this society is strong against such extremists who are overwhelming us with terror.
the commission has already done so. it is not only politicians who make policy, it is enough to use a single word, and such a word is grexit. grexit is being launched from within german government circles, at least it is not being denied there. but grexit is a word-choice nothing else for deception and threat. the german electorate, which is about to accept the third greek bailout, is to be deceived and the greek electorate is to be threatened. because the greek voter should not necessarily vote for alexis tsipras and his syriza. this is a massive interference in the democratic elections in a democratic country. i think that's underground and undemocratic. the euro is not working, it is costing many millions of people their jobs and their future. but it is also increasingly costing us our democracy. the heart of europe is not a currency, it is democracy. let's protect them!
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. 70 years ago, on january 27, 1945, the auschwitz concentration camp was liberated by soviet soldiers. the images that the liberators saw and captured still shake the world today: the mountains of corpses, the crematoria, the mountains of shoes, glasses and human hair as evidence of the life plundered, the images of the emaciated survivors, closer to death than to life, these images have been etched in the collective memory of mankind. for the vast majority of the prisoners in auschwitz, rescue came too late. more than a million people were murdered in this death camp - by starvation, by disease, by criminal medical experiments, by torture, by execution and above all by the systematic death in the gas chambers. especially jews from hungary, poland, france, holland, greece, people of the jewish faith from all over europe, sinti and roma, disabled and sick, homosexuals, prisoners of war, political prisoners and - especially disgusting for anyone who has ever visited auschwitz - countless children. these people, declared by fanatical nazi ideologues to be "subhumans", to be pests whose lives were considered unworthy of life, these people should, yes, the butchers wanted this life to be destroyed and exterminated. auschwitz was not the only one, but it was the central site of organized mass murder, the worst breakdown of civilization in human history. "this place is always a cry of despair and a reminder to mankind", says the memorial plaque in the concentration camp. yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is to be auschwitz forever, a cry of despair and warning. the personal guilt may have taken the perpetrators to their graves, but the responsibility arising from their atrocities is a common responsibility of the international community, and it is certainly a special responsibility of the people to whom i belong, the germans. the responsibility to fulfill the vow "never again" rests with us as future generations, forever. history does not repeat itself, but the past is the source of the present, and how we deal with history determines our future. that is why, knowing that the unthinkable happened in auschwitz, we want to defend freedom vigorously every day. we must therefore, in the knowledge that this freedom is at stake, stand up every day for the unconditional dignity of the human person. we must therefore take action every day to prevent the return of attitudes which we thought had been overcome in europe and which we must nevertheless see persisting: hatred, xenophobia, anti-semitism, ultra-nationalism, intolerance. the fact that today, 70 years after the liberation of auschwitz, jews in europe fear for their safety and fear for their lives must disturb us and shake us up. we must now stand together against fear, not allow ourselves to be infected by the hatred that, for example, the paris attackers carried within themselves; we must not respond to hatred with more hatred, not respond to violence with more violence, but must combat a growing distrust, defend the freedom of all and protect the dignity of every individual. that is the task which we must carry out in a special way, here in this parliament as the multinational assembly of nations, 70 years after the end of the second world war and the liberation of auschwitz. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the italian presidency (2014/2855 ((rsp)).
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, i take up the words which the president addressed to this house on the occasion of the commemoration of what happened at auschwitz 70 years ago and i assure the italian government and people of their commitment to combating that terrible infamy which characterized europe decades ago, keeping the focus high today because of a debt we owe to the past but also because of a great investment we must make in the new generations. i think that your greeting, your speech, mr president, allows us to go into the substance of the budget for the six months of the italian presidency by recalling where we started. taking inspiration from telemachus, also in continuity with the greek presidency, we wondered whether these institutions, these politicians, these representatives of the territories which make up the great dream of european union, were capable of assuming the right to be heirs. what does it mean to be an heir? it means being able to think that europe is not just a memory for us: europe is first and foremost a hope. it is not just the past that is affected, but the future. it has the warmth and color of opportunity before it has the color of worry. have we been able in the last six months to rise to this challenge? i am aware that the press, the operators and the workers, before tackling this important subject, emphasize and point out: "but first tell us about the results, tell us if you are satisfied with what you have done in europe for italy!" that is a very bad question, mr president. because those who are in politics are never satisfied, if they are satisfied, they should change their profession! it is also because you do not spend a semester thinking about your country's interests, you spend a semester thinking about how europe can have a chance for the future! we italians, whatever our political colour, know perfectly well that our challenge is not here, it is at home. it is not simply a matter of recalling the cliché of structural reforms. it means that if italy wants to be in global competition it must change and in these six months we have done a lot in our country, what is needed for italy is done by italian citizens, not by the european institutions, and italian citizens must be much more aware of the fact that in these years we have given europe much more resources than we have taken. italy gives the european institutions some 20 billion euros a year, but receives only half of it. italy has been helping to save not only friendly countries but also banks and credit institutions in other countries, and it has done so not out of generosity but because it believes in the european institutions. it has done so without putting a penny of the money of the european institutions to the benefit of its own credit institutions, which, after the stress tests, were forced to increase their capital. he did it because he believes in europe, italy is a country that does not come to the european institutions to ask for help, it comes to offer a great story that began in rome with the signing of the treaty, but perhaps we can say that it began much earlier, started in the values that made our country great, that made our continent great. we have this idea of europe: the idea of a great place of hope for future generations and we know that we have to face our problems at home, as we are doing with the reform of the constitution, the electoral law, the judiciary, the public administration, all realities that in these six months the italian parliament has pushed forward. we did so inspired by a european and europeanist vision, which has had many authoritative representatives in the history of our country - and i will allow mr president, i will allow the members of the european parliament to remember one for all, who has been and has been the guide for our country during these six months too - i would like the european parliament to greet the president of the italian republic, giorgio napolitano, a convinced europeanist who will leave office at this very moment having completed a long process of change and having faced the difficulties in italy with the intelligence and wisdom that many of you have recognized in working alongside him in this house in the past years. well, this semester italy used two big objectives: the first is to give political value to your work, ladies and gentlemen: the new commission was not here when we came here on 2 july to start the semester. we have been co-authors with all the other governments of a choice which i consider historic: the european parliament has chosen to give political weight to the result of the elections on 25 may. the appointment of jean-claude juncker as president of the commission is not simply the result of the recognition of an outcome which would not have been sufficient in itself, because the party that jean-claude presented did not obtain the majority of members necessary to have a vote of confidence, but of a political agreement with a capital p in which, by enhancing the popular choice of president juncker, it chose to give a profound meaning to the vote of the citizens, by binding to the juncker commission a package of reforms, a political project for the coming years. it is the first time this has happened in the history of the european institutions, and i believe it will not be the last, and it will have to be codified to some extent by political custom, but it is a step forward of great significance. italy has also proposed a change in the economic paradigm which has characterized our continental debate in recent years. i believe that either europe changes its economic course or we become the taillight of a world that is changing very rapidly. president juncker has made this very point, he has extended it to the members of his college and i find it symbolic that today, at the meeting of the college, president juncker will present the communication on flexibility and the fund, the strategic backbone of investment, of the investment plan. these are two operations in which we have a positive opinion, we recognise that we are moving in the right direction, we believe that more needs to be done and we are ready to do our part. we are prepared to be generous with the fund, we are prepared to believe deeply in investing in flexibility, not least because if there had been no flexibility, many of the countries that we come from and have come from would not have the economic conditions that they have today. if there had been no flexibility, reconstruction in germany would not have been so easy. if there had been no flexibility, the policy would have been cancelled out of this house today. but what i'm saying is that in the last six months we seem to have seen a profound change in direction, not yet in fact. i remember the ypres summit, it was in june this year, i remember the very tough discussion with my friends and fellow heads of government, when we stressed the importance of investing in growth, when we stressed the importance of investing differently on the relationship between economy and flexibility. how long it seems to have been, and yet it has only been six months! these are the two outcomes that i think go together: the commission's decision to invest in policy with policy, the commission's decision to choose a direction. of course, i could go on and on about the results, the climate and energy agreement, the transition policy from mare nostrum to triton, the institutional transition carried out despite the negative auspices in a climate of positive cooperation, the automatic mechanisms to combat evasion, the investment in a different policy of international cooperation, the declassification, which was and is so dear to this parliament, of the negotiating agreements for ttip, gmos, even with some defeats, i believe, mr president schultz, that it is a defeat that is on the made in commitments that this parliament, understood as the institution because it was in april last year but nevertheless this parliament understood as the institution it assumed by asking the council and the commission to become promoters have not been brought to a positive result. the resistance of some countries to the idea of a made in is incomprehensible. we have presented this document for your convenience, it is a document which presents all the results of this semester and you will allow me to pass immediately to the second and final part of my argument. so back to the question at the bottom: we have to ask ourselves: have we succeeded in giving europe a soul again in the last few months? it is difficult to address this debate at a time when the debate on the deep meaning of europe is confronted today with an embarrassing demagogy against the idea of places of hope and politics in europe, which, for example, his holiness pope francis, who wanted to speak in this very session of assisi this semester, explained with such clarity and beauty: the idea of europe as something that serves the world and on the other hand the attempt to invest in demagogy, in fear, the attempt to lock and trap our values within a small framework and within a fortress. europe's place is not the fortress, it is the square! europe's place is not in the trenches, it is in the museum, it is in the school! the key word for europe is not conflict and confrontation but dialogue and encounter! so let me be very clear from this point of view, mr president: we have opened the semester here in this very place with a young woman, miriam, who was in chains in sudan because of her religious beliefs, and i am proud and shudder to say that europe is that in these six months we have allowed that woman to return to freedom and to bring her child born in prison to live free. because for us, europe is first and foremost freedom. president, may i say that i am moved to think of the day on august 20 when i had - and you have - the dramatic beauty and difficult situation of entering a refugee camp in erbil; i remember the reaction of a young man in his 20s, of many young men in their 20s, when in srebrenica europe, faced with genocide, did not dare to speak up and even the blue helmets stood by, stunned and disgusted by the violence and genocide. today we have many places where pain, terror and horror are perpetrated. i believe that europe must be there and you know this well, friends of the european parliament, those citizens who took to the streets in paris. they know this because some commentators have said: the historical photo is the photo of the leaders, no, it is not the photo of the leaders walking together, the historical photo is the photo of a people, first of all the french people, whose history of lights and cathedrals, of reason and beauty, i pay homage upon entering strasbourg, a european city but also a french city, the homage of all italians and all italians after what happened; but it is also, let me say, mr president, that profound idea, that extraordinary experience that we had hearing the songs of the marseillaise as we walked. we have seen the images of men and women who did not resign themselves to the idea of terror and fear and who said with their presence in those squares that europe is greater than the threats, that our values are stronger than their attacks and that each of us, if we are to be truly faithful to the idea of european union and european unity, has the task today of identifying an enemy. because the enemy is here! woe to him who pretends not to know that the enemy is here! of course there is the enemy, but to those who say that the enemy is religion, i invite you to go and reread a very great speech made by the egyptian president among the many appointments this semester i would like to emphasize how the bilateral we made both in cairo and in rome, with the egyptians, is one of the fundamental turning points for the mediterranean but that speech that al sisi gave on the first day of the year in a university in cairo, in a university where he explained that the enemy is not religion, but it is that ideology that aims to kill even the very idea of religion that people and leaders al sisi try to carry out daily. the enemy is there, it's ideology, it's fanaticism, but the big risk we run is not that we don't see the enemy, it's that we think that fear can stop us, can immobilize us, can block us; and so i believe that to close oneself off, to isolate oneself, to raise limits, to raise walls, is not to be european. mr president, someone is going too far in the political debate, but also in the cultural debate, and is saying that we must live in fear and in hiding in the name of our security. we have come to say that the word identity is in contrast to the word integration, as a man of government, as an italian, let me say as a man of the left, i want to say forcefully that we will never leave the word identity to those who shout the loudest, because the word identity is a beautiful word that belongs to us, that concerns us, the word identity is a word that expresses the deep sense of being european. i am proud of my roots, i am proud of the streets where i played football, i am proud of the schools where i grew up, i belong to my land, i am proud to be european, italian, florentine, i am proud of what my little personal story represents, because my identity is a fundamental trait. the opposite of identity is not integration, the opposite of identity is anonymity, the opposite of integration is disintegration, it's rupture, it's destruction. we must therefore have the strength today to say with great clarity, with great determination, that when within the european institutions and outside they think of defending our identity by locking us up in fortresses in the name of security, we must always remind ourselves that freedom and responsibility are the preconditions of security, that there is no security without freedom in europe and that in this world our enemies, unable to kill us, are aiming to change our way of life. we cannot allow anyone to change our way of life, if you will call it in the words you think most appropriate; you call this a war? you call this a conflict? you can call it whatever you want! there is a real reality, the demagogic coward can get one decimal more vote, but if we are the ruling class here, if we are leaders and men capable of leading the institutions, the challenge today is to get europe back to doing its job and this passage leads me to say something very simple to close: if we are seeing a return to politics in europe today, it is because in these months and in these years we have seen that the world is demanding more europe, not less europe. but we have to tell the truth: the european union is not a political union, but a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe. i think, mr president, that at the end of these six months we can say that this attitude was a mistake and that the change that the juncker commission is bringing about in these six months is a change that probably should have been imagined in the last six years, not the last six months. today the world is changing, the world is trying to invest in the future, europe is not! we were in brisbane, together with the g20, and the words growth, investment and innovation are words that are echoed everywhere. we must be at the forefront of this phenomenon of change, not at the bottom. we shall only be able to do so if europe looks at itself again with the awareness that it is a non-economic superpower, a superpower of values, the same superpower of values that certain elements of demagogy would like to erase. in leaving the baton to the latvian presidency, i remind myself that when this parliament was called to direct elections it was under the italian presidency, in 1975. under the italian presidency, the agreement was reached to move to direct voting and the direct election of members of the european parliament. it was a very important, very beautiful, very significant moment. forty years ago latvia was not only not part of the european union, but it was in a totally different story. today we are showing that europe is capable of change, but we must also think that this change must first of all make us look at neighbourhood policy in a different way, and this is the legacy we are leaving to the new presidency. neighbourhood policy means a different focus on the mediterranean, a different focus on enlargement of the european union, because we cannot do without albania, serbia and montenegro, and we cannot allow this enlargement debate to be dictated and tainted by fear. the relationship between ukraine and russia has certainly been one of the most sensitive issues of this semester and i fear that it will continue to be so throughout the season we are living. in introducing you to italy's upcoming international events, starting with the expo, which will be held on may 1st, a major theme for those who believe in politics: feed the planet, change the lives of men. this means making a big investment in lifestyle, but also in fighting hunger. i would like to leave you with a thought not about telemachus but about ulysses, because it is difficult - reading more than two books is difficult for some of you, i understand that - but i learned what europe was not in the corridors of the institutions, i learned what europe was, mr president, in studying the history of my city. in my town there's a great character, dante alighieri, who, when he puts a little prayer in ulysses' mouth, makes a reference that i find extraordinarily effective today, at a time when they would like to keep us at home scared and confused, says dante, making ulysses speak: they were not made to live like brutes, but to pursue virtue and wisdom. i think that's a great message for all of us today. the european parliament is at a crossroads, it is choosing whether to imagine living like a brute, pursuing a demagogic message which may perhaps bring a few extra half points but which will not allow it to govern europe, and on the other hand, there is the possibility of pursuing virtue and knowledge, that is, of being european. and we, who are excited and responsible, believe that europe today is the real place for the challenge of tomorrow. in this spirit, i thank the institutions for their cooperation and i say to the president of the european parliament that italy, true to its message of civilization, values and ideals, will always continue to work for a europe that is more and more of the people and less and less of the bureaucracy.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr matteo renzi, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there are times when it is difficult to move from one moment to the next. you have very rightly referred to the liberation of the nazi camps in the opening of today's sitting. those who were born long after the war and those who have a book-based knowledge of the events you speak of cannot imagine the pain and tragedies which may have befallen europe between the years not only 1940 to 1945 but also 1933 to 1945. beware of the bad start, let's remember the history and learn the appropriate lessons. and now we're all gathered here on french soil. how could i forget at this moment the tragedy, the collective and individual tragedy that has just struck france in the middle of the last week. we remain shocked, scandalized, appalled, disgusted by what has just happened in paris. yes, we are all charlie, but across the world, there are many charlies we must think of today. however, since we are in france, i want to say here: "long live the republic and long live france!" (applause) i would like to thank we are now at the end of the italian presidency and on the eve of the latvian presidency. this is a sobering circumstance. this is the end of an italian presidency, a presidency of a founding member state, and tomorrow we shall have the latvian prime minister of a new member state speaking. who would have thought in 1957 that latvia would preside over the destinies of europe in 2015? who would have thought that tomorrow we would hear the speech of a latvian prime minister who, speaking before us, would symbolize the reconciliation between european history and geography and would bring an end to the disastrous post-war decree which would have meant that europe would be forever divided into two irreconcilable parts. i say today: 'long live europe!' because tomorrow, as today, we will witness a great european moment and we can be proud of what we have achieved over the past decades. we have now reached the end of the italian presidency, to which i would like to pay all the possible homage, my dear friend, carissimo amico. i have presided over the council five times in my ministerial career, including twice as president of the european council. i know that feeling of the end of the presidency. we are relieved, we are happy to hand over the keys to the next presidency, but we are also frustrated because we were not able to do everything we dreamed of before the presidency began. but the italian government has done a lot of things. it has enabled us to agree on the 2014 and 2015 budgets. on this point, the cooperation, collaboration and complicity between the presidency and the commission was total and, with the other branch of the budgetary authority, which is you, ladies and gentlemen, we were able to do a good job together. but without the commitment, without the daily will of the italian presidency, this result would not have been possible and if the italian presidency had not been able to do what it did, we would today be in the midst of a budgetary crisis whose effects we would feel at every moment. the italian presidency has managed to ensure that we can adopt all the legal decisions on the single resolution mechanism for bank failures, a pillar of the banking union. secondly, we were able to build on the italian presidency's determination to make rapid progress on investment. we agreed during the election campaign, when parliament inaugurated the commission, that we should set up a virtuous triangle: fiscal consolidation, which remains essential, structural reforms, which are important, but also a dimension of growth and job creation, which found its first concrete expression in the investment plan which i had the honour of presenting to you at the end of november. without the will and the encouragement of the italian prime minister, the commission would have had difficulty in making the rapid progress it has made in boosting european growth, which remains an essential dimension of the political will of the whole of europe. we will adopt - and matteo renzi has just said this - all the legal texts relating to the establishment of the investment fund today, this afternoon in the college. we shall be adopting today a commission communication on flexibility in the stability and growth pact, flexibility in the stability and growth pact and not side by side and in parallel. on this and other points, we owe to the enthusiasm of the italian presidency many inspirational elements of the european commission's action. to make a long speech more comprehensible, i should like to say here: 'yes, the italian presidency has done a good job!' the italian presidency has lived up to its responsibilities and i hope that the italian government, when it leaves the presidency, will remember the noble inspirations which guided its action during the presidency and that italy, thanks to the genius of its people, whom i continue to admire, will remain european as it was during this presidency. long live the italians!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president-in-office of the council, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. italy is a core country of the european union, of great economic importance, of great cultural importance, of great historical importance for our common european home. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should like to begin by thanking the epp group for the points that have been made. the results are that we now have a stable budget for 2015, which is a success of the italian presidency. thank you very much for that. it's a sign of stability and strength. the italian presidency has put the issue of migration on the agenda. i would like to thank your minister of the interior, angelino alfano, who has taken up the subject, who has put it on the agenda and who has thus contributed to the fact that we as europeans feel that we have a shared responsibility. and we had the big issues of flexibility and investment that have been raised in this half year. so first of all, thank you for the work, and thank you to the ministers and the experts for the design. i would also like to thank you for your statements on the dimension of recognising the historical and democratic dimension of the last six months. your clear statement that we have given the voters the choice of who should lead europe, and that you, as president of the council, have supported this in recent months, was an important signal. the fact that jean-claude juncker is in office today is a decision taken by the voters, who have made the epp group the largest group. this basic statement that the voters have the final say - thank you for underlining that again. now for the future, the tasks are not over, of course. the responsibility of italy is not over either. i was talking about the old argument about flexibility, investment. they've responded. you have said that we should perhaps no longer see the europe of the economy as so crucial, but rather the europe of values. and frankly, what i'm thinking is, why do we always have to construct the conflicts in the sense of constructing differences, doing one thing and not doing the other so much? i think we should be aware that it only works with each other! we will only be able to justify europe's values internally vis-à-vis the citizen if we also remain economically strong, and above all we will only be able to represent them externally if europe remains a strong economy. i think that we should not build on each other's failings, but rather emphasize together what is important to us. when you talk about the efsi, the investment pact that jean-claude juncker and his commission are going to legislate this afternoon, then, yes, the vice-president in charge, katainen, always refers to the investment side, that we need to invest more in europe. but he also stresses that part of the investment package is that we are pushing structural reforms and that we need to do more on the commitments for the budgets, on the stability of our national budgets. if flexibility is decided on this afternoon, then it is our common wish to make clear what flexibility means. but, mr prime minister renzi, you also decided in the european council that the rules six-pack, two-pack should remain intact, that they should remain as they are. it states, for example, that the member states should strive to achieve a total debt ratio of 60% of gdp. i think both sides are right in that we interpret flexibility - and the commission has a great responsibility this afternoon to make clear what that means - but also to remind us of what was decided in the council, namely not to change the rules. i am also very concerned about the fact that we are reliable and that we do what we promise people. ladies and gentlemen, this week has a different tone because we are all deeply affected by paris and by developments on our continent. i would therefore like to end by stressing once again what unites us as europeans. the emotions that we all have should not stop us from taking a good path for our continent. i would like to make it clear that what constitutes the so-called west are not the ideas that are practised by many radical forces in all the countries of the european union. the west is solidarity, the west is subsidiarity, the west is enlightenment, i.e. separation of state and religion, freedom of religion. these are the points that make up the west, and we will continue to campaign and fight for them in the future. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. her presidency of the council was not an easy one, it was a time of transition. it would have been wrong to expect too much. i would have liked you to have spoken more openly about the problems which have recently come to light. we had a very good talk about it yesterday. we must all be grateful to the french people for having given european politics, with this march républicaine, a new chance, as it were, to renegotiate the values and objectives we have been talking about for a long time, between the political camps, but also between politics and the citizens. in view of the objectives of your presidency of the council, it is important to talk again about how distrust can be turned into trust, not only between the different groups in our societies but also between citizens and politicians. i would have liked you to have said in this context how you actually see what the interior ministers of the european union have presented as responses to the challenge of freedom. after seeing how much data there was in france on the bombers, the murderers, i feel rather uncertain if the new answer is the old answer and more data is supposed to make europe safer. we must talk about integration, education and all that. but as a green, i also know that this security challenge is a serious challenge. nevertheless, the answers so far are far from satisfactory. they had made escape, asylum and immigration a priority of the italian presidency. at the moment, i would say that these junk steamers, these junk tankers, which are transporting more and more people, desperate people, from asia and africa to europe, actually symbolize what we have done with dublin i, ii and iii, and that they also symbolize that europe, although we are not economically at the bottom, but one of the richest areas in the world, has not been able to create a proper immigration law until today. greece and the euro a major topic of uncertainty. yes, there has been a little tweaking of the euro stabilization policy and the crisis policy. but i would like to say again on behalf of my group that i do not believe that the euro will become stable unless the political elite dares to move towards political and economic integration of the european union. the problem is not mr tsipras in greece or for greece, the problem is that we have not been able to build confidence in the economic and political integration of the european union.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the only one who has presented concrete results from this half-year has been the president of the commission. he spoke of the fact that the budget and the bank resolution were actually brought to fruition. that's right, i did. otherwise, a lot was said about european values and the citizens' confidence, and then, mr president-in-office, the consequence was that the most important thing was that the whole policy had to be reversed now, and that had to be done now, and that was to be done today in the commission meetings. i hope it doesn't happen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it was an attempt to move forward step by step, even with given words and given dates that we had made together. we have also made progress in this area, step by step, if i see it correctly, if i look at spain, if i look at ireland. it's been done in many states. some of them didn't go so well, that's true. but you have to ask yourself why. is the answer that we are now simply throwing everything overboard, that we are now allowing investment to be counted, that we are relaxing the stability criteria, that we are now living only on the promise of structural reforms, but not on the promise of delivering them? i don't think it was. people's trust will depend on whether we deliver results, whether we deliver progress, whether people feel that we are really moving forward, that we are achieving growth. it is not dependent on more money, it is not dependent on more programmes, but it is dependent on reliability. it also means that once you have made a decision, you will stick to it. i would like to see the commission, parliament and the council and, indeed, the member states do the same. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i think this presidency has produced some results, and they have been presented. the council president then proposed political demands that everything be reversed. i don't share that at all. i said that as clearly and precisely as you did. that's the difference. i would never, however, derive from this a general insult to politics and politicians. it's not going to do anything. that's not going to get you anywhere.
in writing. the italian presidency is over and we have heard many fine words about successes. i am sorry that i cannot join in the congratulations, because the italian presidency has been unspectacular. this is understandable, because italy is one of the biggest economic disaster areas in the eurozone, and it is of central importance that the italian government first address the situation at home. what about italy? youth unemployment has risen to 44%, industrial performance is 30% below its peak, banks are sitting on over 180 billion in bad loans, and private lending has been in negative territory for over two years. the government's share has been regularly above 50% for years. the euro crisis broke out six years ago, and only now are the first reforms being carefully put in place. nevertheless, italy is already tired of 'austerity'. italy's substance is being lost, its young people have no prospects, and only mr draghi and his transfer policy are keeping the country afloat. dear italians, you have already had a lost decade and cannot afford a second. leave the euro, restructure your debt, reform your state, and give yourself and your children a future!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to express my gratitude to all those who have contributed to this compromise, in particular to our shadow rapporteur elisabeth köstinger, as coordinator of the epp, and to giovanni la via, who has guided the trilogue very skillfully as chairman of the committee on the environment. i don't think we could have done this with less effort. i would remind you that it took the council four years to reach a common position. four years! and that went all the way to the top. i can report from the member state i know best that there were serious reservations on the part of the chancellor as to whether such a compromise could even be made, because we are already interfering very much in the internal market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. those who now say that this does not go far enough and that we do not want all this should take this into account. the epp will vote for the compromise because it also addresses the concerns of citizens in many member states. to those who are now threatening to reject, the greens - mr staes, i really appreciate your work, but i thought it was quite amusing that our otherwise very good interpreters had translated your statement, the greens/efa group, free european alliance, reject the compromise, with 'efdd'. and you're here in a boat with the efdd. you should think about that. we as the epp agree to the compromise. i think that a majority of this house should do the same. not populism, but responsible action! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, as provided for in rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. first of all, it must be said that those who reject the compromise vote for the current legal situation. it means that member states cannot actually ban the cultivation of the plant. this was made clear in mrs ries's remarks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission has a clear position on ttip, and we are not going to give in to the americans. there was another piece of information in the media yesterday that said otherwise. but if you think about it, it's not really substantial. we will defend our rules, and that includes the national ban on cultivation, if we decide to do so today, and we should.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think this compromise is a lazy compromise and in the end we will have a patchwork of europe: countries that have genetic engineering, countries that do not have it, and that in a common market. this will not lead to more consumer confidence, but to less consumer confidence, and it serves everyone, but not the clarity of new rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. is there going to be more authorizations, more authorizations, because now member states are simply agreeing to authorization in the belief that they can then ban it back at home? is there a wave coming, or what? what has become of the compromise, of clear rules for the coexistence of non-gmo agriculture? what has happened to clear rules, where we introduce liability rules for those who do not want to grow genetic engineering? all this is not included in this compromise. it is now up to you, mr commissioner, you have promised, or mr juncker has promised, to really shape new authorization rules in europe, and they must then become more democratic and finally meet the majority of european consumers, the vast majority of whom, including the member states, do not want genetic engineering. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are in a situation where we have only approved one genetically modified variety in europe: poppy 810. so who says we have a lot of genetic engineering in europe now? the alleged threat of corporations that we will then get more genetic engineering has so far been, so to speak, in the air. the interesting question now is, and i was just saying that, what happens when the wave of proceedings comes? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on agriculture and rural development. i think we're getting more genetic engineering. i am firmly convinced of this, because the political pressure on the european commission is simply no longer there.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission is therefore proposing to return the cultivation of genetically modified food to the national parliaments, thus reinforcing the subsidiarity of the european union. that is, of course, a good thing in principle, because that is one of the demands that we have always made as the afd. i can therefore understand very well that mr liese has mentioned the chancellor's concerns here, because now the chancellor, who has so far been happy to hand it over to brussels and then had nothing to do with it and had nothing to do with the fact that 88% of german citizens who are very concerned about this planting had no need to worry about it at all, will have to deal with it and will have to give an answer, something which our chancellor is particularly reluctant to do. but of course what is being decided here is not going far enough, because we will indeed have quite a chaos of competence. we will have to be careful, above all as a parliament, that this regulation is not finally abolished by ttip, as has already happened with the association agreement with ukraine.
i have to say, madam president, the directive to be adopted today will create a comprehensive and legally secure regime for the cultivation and non-cultivation of genetically modified plants in the european union. we social democrats would have preferred a general ban on cultivation, because that would have been a better response to the wishes of over 500 million consumers. the council of ministers has not, unfortunately, followed this. what we're getting now is a patchwork of cultivation and non-cultivation. this is a major challenge for the european single market. i shall, however, be seeking approval for the compromise reached. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of the environment. we have more legal certainty and can therefore also achieve a strict ban. the coexistence arrangements between member states, which are also very important to me, make it possible for gmos and conventional or organic farming to coexist. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. it is as follows: it has already been said by our colleague mrs melior that it creates freedom of choice, but she would have preferred a ban in general, because that is what people want. but the fact is, not all people have said they don't want genetically modified organisms. we have not, in fact, set up the efsa to ensure that there is a genuine scientific basis for assessing what is now available in research and what can be grown? is it not true that we always speak out for innovation and for research? and isn't it that in this case we're totally questioning the science?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this is not a challenge to scientific knowledge, nor is it a challenge to the work of efsa. but what you are ignoring here is the great desire of consumers, because in germany too - our common home - 84% say no to gmos, to green genetic engineering.
i have to say, madam president, i have to admit, i don't like the compromise very much, but i still agreed. i have agreed to it because the compromise, if you will, reflects the political reality and because it opens up a new procedure for us. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we now have a rule of law procedure and we can at least deal with the problem. secondly, i have one more wish. the hope is that we can still carry out research in this field of genetic engineering in europe, in the european union, and that we can participate in risk assessment above all. my point is quite clear: simply opposing it is not enough. it is better to do scientific research, analysis and also to participate in risk assessment in order to properly define the opportunities and risks of this relatively new procedure.
in writing. i have today agreed to the outcome of the negotiations between parliament and the member states on new eu standards for the cultivation of genetically modified organisms. the most important change is that in future member states will be able to decide for themselves whether to grow genetically modified seeds. in addition, countries using gmos must ensure that adjacent areas remain protected. the new standards will create greater legal certainty for all concerned.
in writing. i voted against national bans on gm crops. these bans have no scientific basis, distort the internal market and are contrary to the so-called liberalisation directive, which all the political groups in the european parliament have agreed to. at the same time, farmers are being deprived of their freedom of choice. we in the eu have the strictest criteria for gmos in the world. before authorisation, gmos are subject to a complete set of checks by efsa to ensure that they do not present any risk to human or animal health or the environment. for authorised gm plants, member states have established very extensive cultivation and spacing rules to prevent the contamination of conventional crops. the fact that member states can now ban the cultivation of gmos on any conceivable basis violates the scientific principles of the eu. the decision is fatal for europe, the research and development hub, because research activities are also affected by the planting bans. we are building access to future technologies that would enable crops to adapt to the effects of climate change and could help to feed the rapidly growing world population despite the limited agricultural land available. and the consumer is being deceived. there will be no freedom of genetic engineering despite the prohibition of cultivation. in the case of animal production, we are heavily dependent on the import of gm protein feed from america.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 18 december 2014 (2014/2854 ((rsp)). the european council and the commission have made a statement, and i would like to welcome the new president of the european council, mr donald tusk, to the european parliament for the first time in his capacity as president of the european council. mr president, welcome to the european parliament. (applause from the centre) mr tusk, we look forward to working closely with you. we have just reminded you, as we entered, that you were sitting in the same seat four years ago, as the representative of the polish presidency, which we remember as a very successful presidency, and now as president of the european council, and that is why you are speaking now.
president of the european council. - mr president, here, in the parliament of european citizens, on french soil, i want to honour the victims of the paris attacks. we all stand with france and the french people. we will not forget. we will not fear. three messengers of death cannot – will not – intimidate millions of people of good will. that is exactly what we proved in paris last sunday. may this brutal act only strengthen our unity in defence of our liberty, of our solidarity, and of our laughter. i last stood here – as you mentioned, mr president – in 2011 as prime minister of poland. today, it is my duty and my pleasure to brief this parliament as the president of the european council. after an overview of the meeting in december, i will sketch out the work ahead and give you some of my ideas about our union. you will find that they have not changed since the last time i spoke here. honourable members, as you know, to defend everything is to defend nothing. if you have 10 priorities, you have none. that is why, in december, i invited leaders to focus on just two crucially important issues needing our immediate attention. these are injecting investment into the european economy, and the situation at our eastern borders with ukraine and russia. on investment and growth, we discussed and agreed the plan to establish a european fund for strategic investment. today the commission presented the plan in more detail. at our meeting, leaders gave their support and set a firm timeline. now it is for you, as legislators along with the council, to ensure that the fund is ready by june. the aim, as you know, is to unlock billions in new investment in the european economy. the european investment bank can already start signing off the first projects this month. this investment plan will complement our economic strategy based on sound public finances and structural reforms. of course, i know as well as you do that the investment plan is not a silver bullet but only part of our efforts. if anyone has an idea about how to overcome the crisis at one stroke, please speak up. personally, i am convinced that we still need constant work and many ideas, because the economic ‘philosopher’s stone’ simply does not exist. we also agreed on stepping up the fight against tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. this is an important issue – and not only for public finances: it is also a matter of fairness and social justice. we will come back to it in june. regarding the situation in ukraine and russia, leaders had a frank strategic exchange. on the sanctions, we agreed that the best thing for now is to stay the course. we will decide the next steps in march. meanwhile, we will support ukraine and its government, including financially. the more we help the ‘new ukraine’, the better our own future will be. that is why we discussed more financial aid for ukraine. last week, the commission proposed lending a further eur 1.8 billion to ukraine. leaders also welcomed the intention to increase humanitarian aid. ukrainians must know and see that europe is with them. i also took the opportunity at the december meeting – the first of my presidency – to set out a clear agenda for the months ahead. in february, leaders will discuss ways to improve governance in our economic and monetary union. i also decided, after consulting with the french president, that the february european council will deal with the challenge posed by the paris attacks. in march, we will discuss the european economy, the energy union and our approach to russia, including in the context of the eastern partnership summit in riga in may. in june, we will take decisions on the digital single market and review the investment fund. going back briefly to december, the european council also discussed foreign fighters and the passenger name record (pnr) issue, in the presence of president schulz. we know this is a difficult and delicate topic. this parliament has rightly taken seriously its role in defending the freedoms of european citizens. but i also ask you to help us protect the security of those who elected this chamber. yet again we face the everlasting dilemma between security and freedom, and yet again we must find a wise balance between these two fundamental needs. if we are unable to build a coherent security policy for the union, sooner or later we will put at risk the freedoms that we have built at european level, including schengen. i do not want to see that happen on my watch. if we do not get a single european pnr, we may end up with 28 national ones. national systems would be a patchwork with holes. they would interfere with the privacy of citizens but would not properly protect their security. one european system is clearly better for security and freedom. that was true in december and, unfortunately, it is even truer today. we do not have the privilege of living in boring times. these are tough political times. this is the time when the europe our children will inherit is being decided on, day by day. that is why, firstly, we must be clear about our fundamental values: solidarity, freedom and human dignity, including the right to live free from fear. this also means fighting the enemies of those values – whoever and wherever they are. secondly, we need strong determination to end the economic crisis, especially to reduce unemployment. it is also our responsibility to create a genuine economic and monetary union. i take this task very seriously. our common currency, the euro, is our advantage. lithuania’s decision to become the 19th member of the eurozone is a sign of confidence in the currency. (applause) thirdly, the european union must be strong internationally. we will support those in the neighbourhood who share our values. the european union will not turn a blind eye when borders on our continent are changed by force. we have stood united on this issue and we will continue to do so. only unity can bring us results. lastly, the relations between europe and the united states are a cornerstone of our prosperity and freedom. in this context, i believe one of the most important challenges is to make progress in the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). leaders were clear in december: the eu and the us should make all efforts to conclude negotiations on a comprehensive, ambitious and mutually beneficial agreement by the end of 2015. with all of these things, all the european institutions must work together for their common good, while respecting the role that each is here to play. we will conquer the challenges facing us with energy and optimism or not at all. certainly no european nation, and no single state, can conquer them alone. for my part, i will use all the skills i have to keep the work of the european council results-oriented and focused on what really matters. for a long time now, i have observed that the institutions compete with one another. it is my personal ambition to change this to total cooperation, and the first weeks of my work, together with martin, jean-claude and federica, are proving that it is possible. honourable members, a few words to conclude: i do not think europe is old, haggard or barren. i have no doubt: europe is young, dynamic and vital. (applause)our continent remains the best place in the world to live, and i think the european union is the best political organisation in its history: a political organisation, which means that it is a tool in our hands, not a despot, nor a destination. there are some here who do not wish the union well. perhaps i could say i respect that, but i do not. if we undo the european union, no one will be freer. no one will be better off. no one will be safer. (applause) i believed in europe when the polish solidarity movement was born in 1980. i believed in europe when the wall came down in 1989. i still believed when i spoke here as prime minister in 2011 and, honourable members, i still believe in europe today. i want a europe of free citizens, a united, internally secure europe, safe from external threats and confident about its future. we must remember that europe is a real community of nations and peoples, and that is why we must not be afraid of tensions among us. they are often productive and creative. equally, we often get better when we agree to disagree. i am sure that in this room we have a difference of opinion on the charlie hebdo cartoons, but as europeans we share the fundamental view that no one has a right to use violence or to murder people because they have a different religion or a different sense of humour. (applause)similarly, for instance, we have in this room different views about russia and different interests in relation to russia. but no one here, i deeply believe, will ever accept a state invading and occupying the territory of another state or killing its citizens. politics is about the disagreement we allow to play out on the rock of our principles. however, we will never get anywhere without recognising that the fates of europeans, of all of us, are fundamentally bound together. that is why i stand here today.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be brief because i have to be. i must be because the college of commissioners is still in session, and when we discuss important points which require deep reflection, i would not like to leave them alone. so it's a fatherly reflex that forces me to join my colleagues as soon as possible. i must be brief and i can be brief because the president-in-office of the council said what had to be said when he presented to you the results of the first european council which he was able and had to chair. it did so brilliantly because it was the shortest european council meeting i have ever attended. i hope that this will be a good omen and i would like to be able to sleep at night when we are in brussels. he drew your attention to the fact that the european council supported, in principle and in its main points, the investment plan which i had the opportunity to present to you at the end of november. i would like to remind you that the investment plan complements the arsenal of policies at our disposal. i would like to stress again that the virtuous triangle we have defined is to continue the still necessary fiscal consolidation, to relaunch the structural reforms that european interests require in the medium and long term, and to stimulate investment in europe, which has been in a slump since 2008 as the overall level of investment in europe has fallen by more than 15% and well beyond in some member states. i would like to invite the member states once again to contribute by bilateral payments to the capital of the strategic fund we are setting up. unfortunately, the council was not able to gather the first agreements that the member states could have given at the council meeting on 18 december, but once the mechanism is in place and the commission is deciding on its implementation, i would like the member states to contribute in large numbers to giving a boost to the investment plan by participating in the financing. i would have liked to describe to you today in plenary the elements of the commission communication on flexibility in the stability pact, but as the college is still discussing it, i must postpone this presentation. it will be interesting, i can assure you. but i say again, here, the rules of the pact will not be changed. i note, even in this morning's speeches, that there is a great deal of expectation that the nature of the pact will change. it will not change its nature or its rules, but we will add a degree of flexibility to the pact by applying these guiding principles. the commission naturally feels obliged, but this was its original intention, to present to the council by june a package of measures to combat tax evasion. we have agreed and i have said this in front of you when i presented the programme. (laughter from some efdd members) some of them laughed when we first discussed this problem. i can see - if only by reading the european newspapers every day - that there are fewer and fewer laughs. and they'll be even less so in the future. we will present a programme of action... (exclamations from the members of the european democratic group) you may speak a language that is difficult to understand. i do not see the need to listen to each and every word you say in this house. really, i do not. independently of this, the commission will do its work and present to the institutional authorities the council and parliament a directive on the automatic exchange of advance tax rulings. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are going to decide today on the establishment of the strategic fund. we could have done it ourselves - council and commission - without involving parliament in this legislative work. but as i promised, we were going to restore the community method. we therefore want parliament to be closely involved in this legislative work. thank you, mr president-in-office, for allowing me to be as brief as possible. i leave you with a heavy heart. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i would like to begin by extending a warm welcome to the new president of the european council on behalf of the epp group and to offer him our close cooperation. it is the first time that you have spoken in this house and given a report. in donald tusk we have a pole at the head of the european council, one of the most important bodies of the european union. he is now the second pole to take over after jerzy buzek, who was already a pole when one of the new member states was allowed to lead the parliament. perhaps it is also time to stop distinguishing between new and old countries. we are one europe, and donald tusk is a bit of a symbol of that. (applause from the centre) i would like to offer him the close partnership with the epp group and, i believe, with parliament as a whole, which is also characterized by mutual respect because we have different roles. the european council has the task of outlining perspectives, of drawing on the power of the heads of government to define the long-term orientation of our continent, and we, as legislators, have the task of implementing it. that respect is reflected in your words. i thank you for that. i would also like to stress that you are serious about focusing, focusing on the essential issues that are before us now, because the citizens expect us to focus on the big issues of europe. i would like to ask you, the heads of state and government, for the work of the coming years, to remember that when you hold press conferences after your meetings, you do not always say: 'i decided, i implemented, i achieved ...'. it would be nice if we in the council, and i am sure you will try to do that, could create a climate in which it could be said: 'we have moved europe forward and we have moved it.' ladies and gentlemen, we're very happy to have donald tusk here. the commission has already made some important points at the first meeting. the full support for the juncker programme, for the ideas of our president of the commission to stimulate investment, is a great success in view of the debates we have had in the council over months and years. we are pleased that the legislative proposals have been adopted today and we also assure the president of the commission that we will do everything possible to ensure that the decisions are accompanied by legislation as soon as possible. but in all seriousness, we also want to provide our citizens with answers quickly. on ukraine, one of the most pressing foreign policy issues between us and our neighbours, you made it clear in the first meeting that we are still partners with these people who stand for freedom and democracy. the support is there, and it has been made clear by the financial support which the european union has decided to give in recent days. i would also like to say that i welcome the fact that the sanctions are working. some in the public debate were surprised that sanctions suddenly have economic effects. i think the goal was to have economic effects. we hope that the russian leadership will then, because of these sanctions, this economic pressure, return to the path of partnership and cooperation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. europe is in a bit of a state of shock. europe is a melting pot of emotions. the feelings we feel in europe oscillate between courage, anxiety, fear and also self-confidence. the european council - together then, but first the european council - must take the lead and make it clear that we are serious about responding to these challenges. the epp group supports this. in concrete terms, the commission's pnr proposals are already on the table in terms of legislation. we want to get ahead of that. in respect of data protection regulations, we want something to be decided here by legislation to better monitor the risk takers. we also think that we have to do something about the external border debate. that is to say, better protection and better monitoring of europe's external borders is one of the objectives we are pursuing. ladies and gentlemen, we have a common task to work towards a europe of security. it is necessary to give our citizens the answer that we can rise to the challenge and also provide answers. i would like to welcome the new president of the council. the epp group is looking forward to close cooperation. (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, mr papadimoulis. so i think we can all agree that mr juncker is not jesus christ. that is something the house can agree on in full. how, mr. courthouse, you have doubts about that? we are going to tell mr juncker that! mr lamberts, sit down again, we are not ready. mr. coburn, you haven't called "rubbish" in three minutes, so i didn't notice you. all right, everybody, just stay cool. keep cool, colleague, one moment!
mr president, i believe that the statement 'our enemies are in the mosques' is a provocation and i would ask you to respond accordingly! (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank you very much, mr bütikofer. i can assure you that i will be very careful to examine the remarks made by the member who has just spoken. i find it shameful.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the polish political system has recently made great achievements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. continue to break the thought taboos that prohibit talking about it. it is essential that we have a realistic picture of what will help us in the future. we wish the college good luck and courage. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the establishment of a european union with a strong and stable political and economic structure. but to do that, we need to invest in the future. we, the social democrats, want to make sure that the juncker plan works. but then we have to test it, we have to refine it, we have to correct it until it can really enter the fields of investment in europe. this will be our joint mission. i am glad that all my colleagues are helping.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. president tusk, i would also like to extend a very warm welcome to you as president of the european council. i am delighted that for the first time a pole is heading the european council with you. i think poland can be proud that it is now the eastern european country with you in the presidency. i believe that poland can also be proud of what it has achieved in recent years and almost decades: economic growth, development, integration with western europe and its prosperity. but poland did it, on its own. poland has done it on its own merits, and i was surprised, mr tusk, that you, as the representative of a country that has done it on its own, should have celebrated the euro as a currency in the way you have, even though the success you have achieved is precisely because you can make your own decisions with your own currency. we can see this in the case of france, where countries that share the community currency are no longer competitive. we see countries stagnate when they can no longer withstand the competitive pressure of the single currency. mr tusk, you are a european like myself, but please reconsider your attitude to the single currency. it would not be in the interest of your country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eurozone is depressed, debt has risen instead of falling, the population is angry. germany is also in a coma. you can't have a party when your neighbor's house is on fire. the troika has stifled investment. the best investment is therefore to bury the troika. the fiscal pact is stupid and a drag on investment. finance ministers who don't invest at zero interest are crazy. euro-investment has fallen by 15 percent since the crisis. according to the wall street journal, the investment gap is as high as 800 billion euros a year. the juncker plan is voodoo. the commission is proposing to increase the amount of guarantees from eur 21 billion to eur 300 billion. even this wonderful multiplication of bread - jesus christ was mentioned earlier - is only 0.8 percent of the eu's gdp annually. instead of mining mega-wealth and draining tax havens -- as star economist piketty calls for -- insurance companies should invest in highways and schools. when the state invests, it creates wealth for everyone. so taxpayers have to pay for the return of the financial sharks. that's expensive nonsense. we are calling for a public investment programme of 260 billion euros a year. that's reckoned on higher taxes and growth. the ecb should finance public investment through the eib rather than mindlessly pumping liquidity into the banks. we need a wealth tax on millionaires as called for by the imf. roosevelt once led the united states out of the crisis against the power of big money. we have no roosevelt in brussels, we have no jesus christ in brussels, but we have alexis tsipras in athens. he's the answer to powerlessness and corruption. our investment package for europe is called syriza.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the flexibility is all the rage right now. i doubt that you can fight national debt with even higher national debt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. europe is an ageing continent with a declining population, markets are saturated and i miss even more an innovation offensive, a start-up offensive, a technology offensive on the part of the council and the commission. we must do more in research and development. we must tackle the root of the problem, the cause! i have the impression that people are going back to old concepts and thinking that with government-financed credit incentives, they can overcome the weak growth. i don't think that's what you mean. i think that europe can only survive if we become an innovation union. we would have liked to have heard more from you, mr president tusk.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your reply. the civilian population in libya is repeatedly subjected to attacks by rival factions. people are being driven from their homes, injured, killed, and living in great fear of new attacks. in the autumn, the un high commissioner for human rights even spoke explicitly of war crimes and called for an immediate halt to these indiscriminate military attacks directed at populated areas. we should not unilaterally support any of the hostile groups from outside. because that would block the path to dialogue, which is absolutely necessary if the whole state is not to fall apart. we very much hope that the new un dialogue attempt scheduled for this week will bring concrete progress. in order to create more pressure, we also recommend that the proceeds from oil sales be used, for example by setting up an international mechanism whose task it is to withhold large parts of the proceeds so that they are available only to a national unity government that is being formed. the militias in libya have become accustomed to not being held accountable for their lawless behavior, for their human rights violations. it would therefore be very sensible to set up an international and independent commission of inquiry to document the serious human rights violations and war crimes committed by all sides and to hold the perpetrators accountable.
the current president of the council. - and mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your contribution to the debate on the future of the european union. i have the great honour of speaking for the first time in the plenary session of the european parliament on behalf of the latvian presidency of the council of the european union. tomorrow here the latvian presidency will present the priorities of the latvian presidency to you, mrs laimdota straujuma, prime minister of latvia, but i would like to stress today that the latvian presidency is willing to work closely with the institutions of the european union to move forward on current european union issues. and we look forward to close and constructive cooperation with the european parliament. we look forward to working closely together to jointly guide and take the decisions necessary for the well-being and security of the european people and to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union. madam president, i would like to begin by commending the work done by the persons and services involved in the rescue operations. these operations have helped to save the lives of hundreds of people. the council is deeply concerned by the continuing large-scale arrival of migrants, in particular in italian waters. in this context the ministers are, of course, aware of the new phenomenon of ghost ships large disposable cargo vessels bearing hundreds of migrants across dangerous waters and which are deliberately abandoned, with men, women and children on board, close to eu coastal waters. the very recent rescues of the vessels blue sky m and ezadeen clearly show that action needs to be taken on this new modus operandi. effective measures should be taken against smugglers and traffickers in order to combat and dismantle criminal networks which exploit migrants and expose them to the risk of hazardous journeys across the mediterranean, as well as to prosecute those involved in such activities. it is important to recall that in the context of the work carried out by the task force mediterranean, and in the council conclusions of last october, reinforced border surveillance and the fight against smuggling and organised crime are considered priority areas of action. several specific measures identified by the task force and in the october council conclusions are currently being implemented. the successful deployment of the triton operation is a clear sign of solidarity between member states on this issue. in this context, the council would like to highlight the very efficient way in which joint operation triton is conducted by frontex, the participants of which, with the support of the italian coastguard, have managed to save the lives of thousands of migrants aboard these abandoned ghost ships. however, recent events clearly show that we need to step up and further reinforce our common action and to increase its effectiveness. on 2 january 2015, in a statement issued in relation to the smuggling of migrants in cargo ships, commissioner avramopoulos again stressed the need to combat the criminal organisations which exploit desperate people trying to escape conflict and war. the council fully shares this assessment. commissioner avramopoulos noted that the fight against the smuggling of migrants would be a priority and referred to the development of a plan to be presented by the commission in due course. the council looks forward to the proposals that the commission will submit in this context and will consider them as a matter of priority. the council will also continue to monitor regularly the migratory situation, in particular in the mediterranean region, and will address this subject as a top priority on its agenda.
member of the commission. - madam president, i am standing here before you today because the european commission is determined to take action. we have all heard what happened over christmas and the new year. the lives of around 1 200 migrants, mostly syrians, were saved when the italian coast guard and frontex, in the framework of joint operation triton, rescued two cargo vessels: the ezadeen and the blue sky m. these are only two tangible examples among the more than 12 cargo vessels that have arrived in europe since september 2014. of course, many more people have risked their lives, coming in numerous small boats and experiencing difficult journeys via land borders. this is unacceptable. why? because we cannot allow ruthless smugglers to make a fortune through criminal acts, exploiting migrants looking for a safe passage to europe. people in need of protection should not be risking their lives to obtain this protection. we all know the facts: conflicts in our neighbourhood generate a constant influx of refugees towards europe. this will not go away. on the contrary, if decisive and coordinated eu-wide action is not taken, the flows will continue. in 2014, more than 276 000 migrants arrived in the european union, representing an increase of 138% compared with the previous year. the recent events also show that smugglers are finding new routes to europe and are employing and engineering new methods in order to exploit desperate people who are trying to escape conflict and war. in order to respond to the constantly evolving strategies of smugglers, the european union, its agencies and the member states have to step up their cooperation and common action in a spirit of solidarity and responsibility. better coordination and a more comprehensive approach will help to address the roots of the current flows of irregular migrants and of smuggling. let me first elaborate on the fight against smuggling and the rescue of migrants at sea. the recent events show that joint operation triton, which started – as you all know – on 1 november 2014 and is coordinated by frontex, has saved the lives of thousands of migrants. since the launch of the triton operation, and together with the italian navy, almost 16 000 asylum seekers and irregular migrants have been rescued or intercepted and 57 facilitators arrested. in addition, other european agencies have undertaken many important initiatives to tackle smuggling. at the hague, europol’s team in intelligence-sharing and cross-border investigations of smugglers’ networks has been reinforced, resulting in the arrest of hundreds of facilitators. in malta, the european asylum support office (easo) has launched a project to gather information from asylum applicants about the routes taken during their journeys. the commission will support its agencies in order to intensify their efforts, but we also count on the financial and operational support of the member states. we need to intervene and inform prospective migrants about the risks of entering europe illegally. reinforcing intelligence-gathering and the sharing and promotion of practical cooperation between the member states and eu agencies are also crucial in order to prosecute more smugglers, undermine criminal networks and deprive them of profit-making. smuggling is a criminal offence, but we need to make our legal instruments more effective. in this respect, the commission is currently assessing the existing eu criminal framework in an effort to improve its practical implementation. cooperation with countries of origin and transit is also a cornerstone of the commission’s strategy to fight smuggling. given that turkey has become one of the alternative routes for smugglers to reach the european union, we are in close contact with the turkish authorities to quickly adapt our strategy. of course, the cooperation with third countries cannot be limited to the fight against smuggling. we will cooperate with them in an integrated approach, encompassing broader foreign policy considerations, development assistance and humanitarian actions. one clear example of our integrated approach is the cooperation with many african countries. for the countries of the horn of africa, we have made available almost eur 6 million – not only to support and facilitate the fight against smugglers and traffickers but also to improve the provision of direct assistance to migrants, refugees and asylum seekers. in the context of the syrian crisis, the european union – including the member states combined – is the largest donor, making more than eur 3 billion available for humanitarian and other aid in syria and in the neighbouring countries. it also is vital that eu member states fully implement the common european asylum system as soon as possible. moreover, the european union and the member states must work together to establish a truly european programme for the resettlement of refugees. following a recent pledging conference, member states have so far offered over 36 000 places to syrian refugees, making it the largest pledge in the history of eu resettlement efforts. however, a total of 207 000 people have crossed the mediterranean irregularly. furthermore, more than 3.5 million syrian refugees have fled to countries neighbouring syria. so there is no doubt that europe needs to do more. we have to increase the number of refugees resettled in european union countries. in order to ensure that member states share this responsibility, the commission has set up a resettlement and relocation forum to develop – always in cooperation with member states – a fair distribution key. in this critical hour, where europe is facing a growing number of challenges, the european union and the member states together have to take credible and effective action on migration. europe has to take charge. we have no time to spare. together, we will move forward with commitment and resolve.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, i should like to thank you very much, commissioner, for the intensive efforts you have made in the last nine minutes to present the integrated approach that we want and must take together. what's striking about the recent incidents involving the last two ghost ships is that the first thirteen, the ones before that, were completely unnoticed. there were fifteen such vessels in all, twelve to italy, two to greece, one to cyprus. if you look at the scale of the financial profits of the traffickers, this is simply a ship with 700 to 800 people = 5 million euros for the traffickers. in other words, this is a brutal human trafficking that the criminals in question use and then their other criminal branches use to further their crimes. that is why it is important and necessary that we act against this trafficking in human beings. what bothers me is that all 15 of the ghost ships came from turkey. the european union has a duty to ensure that turkey, as a partner of the european union, maintains the links between us so that we can effectively combat organized crime, which is moving from turkish soil towards the european union. the fight must also be effective and meaningful. that we must also consider, in cooperation with turkey, how we can solve problems for the countries which have taken in a particularly large number of refugees - whether turkey, lebanon, jordan, tunisia or similar countries which are faced with large numbers of refugees and which therefore want our support, including the approach of legal migration, wherever possible. but this also requires improved cooperation and sharing in the member states so that we can really implement such a legal approach together.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is certainly inhumane for traffickers to abandon ships with hundreds of refugees on the high seas in the mediterranean, and it is certainly reprehensible for old cattle-carrying vessels to be used to bring refugees crammed into europe and to regard this as a new business idea. but frankly, if the council and the commission now come forward and lament the new level of inhumanity of traffickers, then it is hypocritical. it is hypocritical because it ignores the question of why refugees use these unsafe escape routes in the first place. it is ignored that frontex's actions are themselves contributing to ever more dangerous escape routes, that many refugees objectively cannot obtain visas at all, and that with the end of mare nostrum, triton will now be left to smugglers and traffickers on the high seas, and no one will ask for refugees. if the member states' interior ministers still think they must strengthen the repressive border guard policy, i say: the more they arm themselves at the external border, the worse the smugglers' methods become, that is a fact! what we need is a kind of disarmament, a change of course in asylum policy, not a khartoum-style strategy of relocation, but integration strategies, and legal pathways to europe, and that is what we need. let's change our minds about this. we are talking about human lives, and we are not saving a single human life by more repression at the border.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. with the end of the mare nostrum rescue programme, the european union has finally abandoned the mediterranean to the brutal trafficking gangs. frontex is not a substitute for this, it cannot be a substitute for this. we need a coordinated sea rescue here in europe, in the mediterranean. what about the commission? commissioner, you now want to fight smugglers more vigorously. how do you intend to achieve that? with libya, a state that is hardly one? in cooperation with turkey, where refugees are hardly protected? the crossing will only become more dangerous and more expensive for the refugees. the only thing that's really effective against smuggling gangs, the only thing that's really helping refugees, is legal immigration, the ability for refugees to seek legal and safe protection here. i am sorry, commissioner, but 37 000 resettlement places are really not enough. the unhcr has asked for 100,000. there are many member states of the european union that do not resettle a single refugee. i would like to hear what you are planning to do, because this is a humanitarian catastrophe. we must do more!
i have to say, madam president, at the turn of the year, unmanned cargo ships carrying some 1 200 refugees were intercepted off the italian coast. yes, the smugglers' methods are unacceptable, putting lives at risk for up to $8,000 per crossing. but the real problem is that many people in need of protection see no other way to come to europe and seek asylum here. criminal groups are taking advantage of this. we can't give the impression that we're just trying to isolate ourselves. the fight against trafficking must be only part of the answer. we must demand european solidarity in asylum policy, ensure fair participation of all member states and critically monitor the implementation of new asylum rules. the council must do more, for example in the area of resettlement and humanitarian visas. lithuania could perhaps be a good example. the commission's pilot project for 10,000 civil war refugees is a start. but i expect the commission to be more courageous and to come up with new proposals - also in the area of legal labour migration beyond blue cards and seasonal work. europe can provide protection, and europe needs immigration. more commitment to integration is necessary for a more peaceful coexistence and also as an important building block against any form of radicalisation. let's get on with it.
i have to say, madam president, i thank you for your indulgence in delaying my speech, but it is a very important subject and i think it is also very important that the views on this subject - as they say - should not be confined to the neighbouring countries, but should be the responsibility of the european union as a whole. we also see that, as they say, everything is connected, and it is nice to see small improvements. we were all proud, for example, that we had achieved a democratic freedom movement in north africa. but what has been achieved in this movement for freedom is that the flows of refugees have increased. we were surprised by the violence and we were right to say again that we must make sure that people who set out to the mediterranean do not simply drown. but we also see that, of course, smugglers use this very strategy to bring even more refugees into the european union. firstly, it is really important that we stand together here, and secondly, that we also make agreements with the states where the refugees are, i say, let on the water. it simply cannot be that money is made from other people's suffering. people don't just have to be put to work, people have to be punished simply and harshly.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, only 18.6% of board members in europe are women. among the top executive positions the figure is only 3.3%. three point three per cent, that is how far we have come 222 years after olympe de gouges died under the guillotine and 66 years after simone de beauvoir published her famous book ‘le deuxième sexe’. really? this is not only a minor problem of justice in the european union. it is a frustrating scandal – a scandal that we could change. we could change it if only we could bring to a successful end the process of really making the european union a champion for women’s rights. the introduction of a binding quota was started by courageous women. it was watered down; it was debated, praised and condemned. we as women, and also men, in this parliament need to stand up for it now. we need to make very clear that we will fight for an ambitious, binding and european right as regards quotas for women in executive board rooms, and we will not give up until women get what they deserve – half of the power in boardrooms, in politics and in our societies.
mr president, madam president-in-office, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we need more women in leadership positions in companies. i think we can all agree on that. we've been discussing this for years. the european commission, then still under the leadership of your predecessor, mrs jourová, put forward a very intelligent proposal, a very clever proposal for the member states as well. i can only emphasize what the commissioner said: you said this proposal was smart and flexible. i think so, too. it gives the member states the necessary leeway to act accordingly, depending on developments in the countries. i want to emphasize: i come from germany. we have had a very difficult time introducing a quota for women, but we are now close to introducing it, also legislatively. the bundestag will shortly be discussing the draft law which the federal government has put forward. i would also like to emphasize that the first success of the proposal, the directive, is that even in a large country like germany, a step has just been taken. so this is a positive message in view of the political message that commissioner reding has sent out, to do more for women, to put women in leadership positions. i wish the presidency of the council every success. i am sure i will also use my contacts in berlin to encourage germany to give in here. it is time that this proposal was put to rest. as i said, you have my support as long as you exclude small and mediumsized enterprises from the directive. i would have been happy if family businesses had been excluded. but all in all, it is a proposal which merits support in terms of its content.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. almost half the working population are women. but they are hardly represented in the european executive. on average in the eu, women earn significantly less than men, despite being better educated than ever before. i just don't think this is acceptable anymore. these depressing facts about 'gender equality' have been discussed at length and widely over and over again. but it's more than time for something to change. that is why the european parliament has acted. the commission has therefore already adopted an ambitious and balanced legislative text in 2013. it has sent a clear signal to the companies, and of course we expected the governments of the member states to take action as well. but what has happened so far? i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we must finally start taking our charter of fundamental rights seriously in europe. article 23 states that equality between women and men shall be ensured in all areas, including employment and pay. the principle of equality, it says, does not preclude the maintenance or introduction of specific advantages for the underrepresented sex. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. latvia could do it. it has the highest percentage of women on supervisory boards, 31%, as you mentioned, madam minister. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. how long have we been discussing equal opportunities for women in the labour market, and what has this discussion, which has been so non-binding for years, produced? eu-wide - as has been said - about 18% of women in management positions are on supervisory boards. women in europe still do not receive the same pay, they do not have the same opportunities for advancement, even though they are at least as qualified as their male colleagues. it's time we got a binding quota. achieving this in supervisory boards can be the beginning to pave the way for all women in europe. parliament has done its homework here, now it is the council that is in charge. the christian democrats in germany have realised that their previous stance was wrong and that voluntary action is useless. now, in the grand coalition, they have voted for a mandatory quota of women on supervisory boards, and this must now also be reflected in the council - in the german attitude, in the attitude of other member states - the blockade must be lifted, otherwise women will still be facing the much-vaunted glass ceiling in 100 years.
in writing. the debate on women on company boards initiated by the european commission is dishonest in two respects. the eu commission is presenting a work programme to clarify general legislation and promote small and medium-sized enterprises. the same institution, however, introduces new bureaucratic hurdles with the women's quota. the eu commission and, incidentally, many other national and international political organisations and institutions do not live up to their own claim. this means that the eu's political institutions impose on economic enterprises rules which they cannot comply with themselves. it is unreasonable to put women in management positions in companies simply to symbolically shift responsibility, to meet a politically motivated quota and thus further the institutional governance of values and norms in the eu. the decisive criterion for top posts must be professional qualification. the right policy approach should be based on equality of opportunity rather than equality of outcome.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, thank you for this opportunity to address the issue of organised crime and corruption. it is our obligation to guarantee our citizens a general area of justice, freedom and security by preventing and combating serious and organised crime as well as corruption. we have to mobilise all our instruments to this end and combine efforts to adopt a comprehensive and coherent approach to crime. europol’s serious and organised crime threat assessment estimated in 2013 that 3 600 organised crime groups were active in the european union. criminal organisations are becoming increasingly flexible and are diversifying their activities. links are steadily growing with a broad range of other lucrative criminal activities, such as drugs or even trafficking in human beings or exploiting technological developments for criminal purposes. huge criminal proceeds are generated which are infiltrated into the illicit economy. as a result, criminal groups are increasingly capable of influencing the operation of the legal markets, and even the institutional and political processes across the eu, by engaging in corrupt practices. the council has been continuously engaged in a range of initiatives, targeting organised crime and corruption, and has been treating them as a matter of the highest political priority. a key measure is the eu policy cycle, which was adopted in 2010. this cycle ensures an operational response to organised and serious international crime through optimised coordination and cooperation between national law enforcement authorities, eu institutions, agencies and other relevant partners. within this framework the council agreed to a series of operational actions targeting, among other things, counterfeiting and cybercrime, which were agreed as eu crime priorities. emerging crimes, like wildlife trafficking, illegal waste trafficking or trafficking in cultural goods, have also been identified by the council as areas which need attention. such crimes will be closely monitored by europol, which is expected to submit to the council an interim serious and organised crime threat assessment at the end of march 2015. the council attaches great importance to the eu anti-corruption report, which was issued for the first time by the commission on 3 february 2014. this is a valuable tool in consolidating anti-corruption efforts and promoting high anti-corruption standards across the eu, based on a comprehensive approach. we believe it will provide further incentives for the member states to ratify and effectively implement the existing anti-corruption instruments. the role of asset recovery has been acknowledged as an integral part of the fight against serious and organised cross-border crime. criminal groups can amass huge profits from the various criminal activities and markets, and it is generally agreed that disrupting and recovering the financial flows of a criminal group is an efficient way to stop crime paying. the new directive on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime, adopted by the european parliament and council in 2014, provides broader opportunities for confiscating the proceeds of crime in cases where a conviction cannot be delivered because the person concerned has absconded from justice or has fallen ill. it also provides for a reinforced system of extended powers of confiscation or confiscation from a third party. this instrument is a clear step forward in ensuring that criminals can no longer have access to assets derived from certain types of criminal activity, and this contributes to strengthening the response to serious forms of crime. nonetheless, during the negotiations leading up to the adoption of the instrument, the council and parliament felt that still more could be done in this field. to that end they adopted, together with the directive, two declarations calling upon the commission to consider the possibility of submitting further proposals on this matter. the council is looking forward to the commission’s initiatives in this respect. finally, please allow me to comment briefly on the review of the internal security strategy. this will be a high priority for the presidency, as we wish to respect the deadline set by the european council calling for a review and update of the internal security strategy by mid-2015. in december last year the council adopted conclusions which set out the council’s considerations on the general structure and some key principles of the renewed eu internal security strategy. one of these key principles is that the renewed internal security strategy should identify the main common threats and challenges. for the coming years, in the field of internal security, the council considers that serious and organised crime in all its forms constitutes one of these threats.
member of the commission. - mr president, many thanks for giving me the opportunity to present the commission policies and actions to fight organised crime and corruption across the union. the resolution on renewing the internal security strategy, which this parliament adopted on 3 december 2014, rightly puts this fight among the few priorities on which we should continue to focus our joint efforts in the years ahead. by preventing and combating crime in all its forms, the european union will contribute to creating a safer europe and a more trustworthy environment for its citizens and businesses. combating the infiltration of organised crime into the legal economy will contribute to economic recovery and growth. this is particularly the case with regard to corruption. european citizens are concerned about corruption. in our eurobarometer survey in 2013, more than half of europeans said corruption in their country had increased over the previous three years. four out of ten european companies consider corruption to be an obstacle for doing business in the internal market. preventing corruption and promoting integrity has rightfully moved up the european agenda in the past decade. last year’s first anti-corruption report shows that the nature and extent of corruption varied from one member state to another, and that corruption affects all member states. the report identified areas in need of further attention. it is important to build cooperation with the member states, among the eu institutions and with the relevant international organisations in order to follow up. the next report is due in 2016. there have been calls to include in the second report an objective independent evaluation of all eu institutions. we will consider this request in full dialogue with the other european institutions. the commission, as you know, has just taken measures to increase its own transparency, which is essential for preventing corruption. let me turn now to organised crime. the seriousness of the threat is well documented in europol’s annual threat assessments. the estimated 3 600 organised crime groups involved in serious transnational crime in the eu are involved in many types of crime, including economic crime, corruption and money laundering, cybercrime and environmental crime. their investments are increasingly transnational too, thus leading to the infiltration of organised crime into the legal economy across the union and beyond. eu legislation needs to be fully implemented: particularly the 2008 framework decision on the fight against organised crime, on which the commission will issue an implementation report this year. the directive adopted last year on the freezing and confiscation of assets is a significant step forward. lastly, the recent agreement on the fourth anti-money laundering directive is promising in terms of enabling financial investigations to identify criminal beneficial owners of companies more easily. alongside legislation, the commission promotes operational cooperation between member states, and between them and third countries through europol. the current operational priorities of europol include illegal immigration, human trafficking, counterfeit goods, excise fraud, synthetic drugs, cocaine and heroin, cybercrime, firearms and organised property crime. funding is provided through parts of the internal security fund: roughly eur 1 billion over the period 2014-2020. i will mention firearms trafficking, as it echoes last week’s tragic events and was identified by europol as an emerging threat. an eu strategy to fight the illicit trafficking of weapons was adopted in 2013. the commission is now evaluating the possibility of proposing the approximation of some criminal offences related to weapons and to strengthening the checks for some categories of firearms. better exchange of information on illegal firearms is also essential. prevention should be a strong component of the fight against organised crime. the commission has actively engaged with third countries and relevant international organisations: for instance, we have a full agenda with the united states as regards the fight against cybercrime and child sexual abuse. with eastern partners the focus is on corruption. fighting cybercrime, given its clear impact on our societies, is a self-standing priority in the current internal security strategy. cybercrime impacts on the economy and also, when the personal data of employees or customers are stolen and property is lost, on fundamental rights. the european union has responded with the creation of the european cybercrime centre within europol and the cyber attacks directive, which member states should implement by september 2015. i call on parliament to ensure that the draft directive on network information security, still under discussion, includes provisions on the reporting of cyber-security incidents of a criminal nature to the law enforcement authorities, as proposed by the commission. criminal investigations into cybercrime require speedy access – subject to due process – to criminal evidence held by private companies under different jurisdictions and in different locations. the commission is ready to work with the member states to ensure that the existing legislation on, firstly, cyber attacks, secondly, payment fraud and, thirdly, child sexual abuse online is correctly and swiftly implemented. the commission is committed to enabling closer public-private cooperation in fighting cybercrime. this cooperation has also started to address the challenges of the suppression of illegal content from the internet, and to counter online terrorist propaganda and radicalisation. to conclude, let me mention the work, during the previous term, of parliament’s special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which was seminal. i trust that it heralds productive cooperation with you in the months and years to come.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the european union is still somewhat critical of the fight against organised crime. i believe that organized crime is still superior to our measures in terms of logistics, networking, brutality and the modernity of its instruments. we must therefore make a great effort to counter the diversity of organised crime. i am thinking in particular of the internet, where there are now many different forms of crime, which are being massively promoted by the internet. for example, the internet has given a dramatic boost to child sexual abuse. the number of children affected has increased considerably. i must also say that i regret that some colleagues from other groups have refused to discuss the new studies and findings in this parliament; we should do so again. the failure to punish crimes committed via and with the internet is a real trigger for more criminal activity. that means we have a lot of work to do. it's not possible to run them all in a minute and a half. but we will have to deal with the internal security strategy in depth. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! corruption is part of the fabric of organized crime. it is the attempt of organised crime to influence politics massively, to carve out avenues for itself through corruption and if they have succeeded, wherever they set foot, then it is our task to remove them from those avenues accordingly, using all the possibilities and instruments at our disposal. we've got a lot of work to do. corruption is still widespread.
i have to say, madam president, i repeat myself, but it is true and it will remain true: the relationship between lawyer and client is based on trust and this protection of this professional secret is also protected by fundamental law, and it exists not only for lawyers but also for doctors and journalists, and it is ultimately a fundamental element of all democracies and therefore of all eu member states. we are, of course, called upon as politicians in the european union to maintain and safeguard this as a pillar of the rule of law. but i have the feeling that this is an isolated case which plays an important role in this area of security. and in this particular case, i think that is why there are in fact only limited powers, including those of the european union. this must also be taken into account because these are security issues and - as has already been said - internal security is also primarily a matter for the member states. the council cannot take action against a potential breach of confidentiality in the member states and the institutions, the judiciary and the ministry of the interior of the netherlands are responsible. i believe that the netherlands is democratic enough to investigate this and is not a surveillance state.
madam president, we need to talk about two issues. firstly, this is not the first instance of a member state hiding behind the so-called exception on national security in the treaty. we learned about the case in which the british intelligence service destroyed information from journalists, and we have now heard about cases of surveillance of lawyers: all justified by ‘national security’. it is high time that the commission investigated and asked the court for a clear definition of what constitutes national security. this needs to be done if the member states do not want to do it. we need it now. the commission has to do it, and parliament needs to push for it. the second question which we need to talk about is what the surveillance of lawyers and journalists entails – especially here in the case we have before us, involving lawyers. after the attacks which we saw last week, i would say that we are talking about blanket retention, and this affects journalists and lawyers too. if we are collecting all this data, then we need to talk about safeguards.
member of the commission. - madam president, i agree that this is a serious problem but i have to repeat that, at the moment, it falls under the jurisdiction of the member states, which set out the rules for the surveillance carried out by national security bodies. the commission is ready to monitor the implementation of the directive on the right of access to a lawyer, which sets out, as i said earlier, the principle of respect for the confidentiality of communication between suspects or accused persons and their lawyers. so this is the current state of affairs. the commission will follow closely the ongoing developments on this issue at european and national level, including relevant cases pending before the european court of justice and the european court of human rights.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, i am grateful to members for the issues and concerns which have been raised during the course of this debate. i will certainly ensure that the council is aware of the outcome of our discussion. however, as i said at the outset, the council has not discussed the specific issue which is the subject of this debate, and has certainly not taken a view on it, for the reasons which i have already explained. it is for the member states individually to lay down their own rules regarding national security.
the current president of the council. - mr president! - what are you doing? mr president of the commission! ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidency! commissioners, please! i am honoured to be here today in strasbourg to present to the european parliament the priorities of latvia's presidency of the council of the european union. today marks 25 years since latvia regained its independence from the soviet totalitarian regime. it has been ten years since latvia joined the european union and one year since it joined the euro area. taking up the presidency of the council of the european union is not only a great honour but also a great responsibility. the magnitude of this responsibility was felt especially strongly on january 7, which shocked us all to our very foundations. so i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity and deepest sympathy with france and the french people. the attack in france is another attack on freedom of speech and european values. i marched in paris on saturday. people of all nationalities, religions and cultures in france and the wider world united in the streets to loudly proclaim: we in a democratic world stand for values, for the free expression of the human person, for the peaceful coexistence of different cultures and religions. i therefore use this forum of the representation of the peoples of europe to call on each of us and on each of our citizens to show even greater respect for other cultures and to a new level of trust between peoples. in this time of stress, when terrorism is trying to force us to take a new and more extreme step, when the growing conflict between religions is pushing us towards violence, we need to be even more humane. we need to keep our interest in other cultures so that our minds are not easily lulled by demagoguery or by a quick interpretation of facts. the european union must be ready to defend itself, its citizens and its values. we all, all the institutions of the european union and all the member states, must join forces to ensure that the european union responds adequately to the challenge posed to the european model of coexistence and thus to all of us. a large-scale forum on world press freedom day will be held in riga from 2 to 4 may, where a wide-ranging exchange of views on current issues will be possible. we have to make all the mechanisms available to the european union, which have been set up to fight terrorism, work. particular attention should be paid to the forthcoming european internal security strategy. in order to complete our toolbox, it is important for us all to work together to ensure effective information exchange between the services involved. we welcome the renewed debate on the passenger name record (pnr). it's the right place at the right time. we're talking about a limited amount of data that could better track the movements of specific individuals. i realize that this is not a one-sided issue. the commission has also received a number of complaints from the latvian authorities regarding the lack of transparency in the implementation of the data protection law. i am confident that the european parliament will be a close partner to the council and the commission, because only together can we deliver a strong european union response. i believe that europe can show unity and overcome these threats. i believe that we will not fall into the trap of allowing terrorism to destroy our faith in each other, or to pit people of different origins or religions against each other in european society. together we can safeguard european values. the future of europe depends on it. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! latvia is taking up the presidency at a difficult and challenging time. the start of the latvian presidency coincides with the successful completion of the institutional transition in the european union. we appreciate the work of the italian presidency and the european parliament and will continue to work to improve cooperation between all the institutions of the european union. the european union is still feeling the effects of the financial crisis. member states and the european union institutions have worked hard to restore confidence in financial markets. member states are still pursuing structural reforms. europe is slowly but steadily returning to economic growth. economic growth is forecast for all eu member states this year. the european union remains the world's largest economy with a strong position in high technology. the overall budget deficit of euro area countries continues to decline. but it's also a good time to build a system that is resilient to potential challenges in the future. the euro area will be enlarged with the addition of new member states. i would like to congratulate our neighbour lithuania on joining the euro as its 19th member state. the citizens of the european union enjoy a level of freedom and prosperity that is denied to the citizens of many other countries in the world. i am convinced that with purposeful action, faith in european values and a willingness to work together, the european union can rise to challenges, overcome difficulties and move forward. in these turbulent times for the continent of europe, it is important to remember that the european union has brought peace and confidence to its people. too often we take it for granted. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! the citizens of the european union are interested in concrete results that improve their daily lives. we can only achieve this by working together council, european parliament and european commission. a great deal of work has been done in the past year to help the european union institutions formulate their priorities for the new institutional cycle. we want to work on implementing them while also focusing on new challenges. the latvian presidency has identified three clear priorities: a competitive european union, a digital european union, and a globally engaged european union. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! first, we want to strengthen the competitiveness of the european union and promote economic growth. structural reforms, fiscal responsibility and investment are the 'three pillars' on which the european union's growth must be based in the years ahead. an education that creates new jobs, not new debts for future generations. we welcome the investment plan proposed by the president of the european commission. we are ready to work actively to ensure that the european fund for strategic investments is operational in june. the commission proposal was tabled yesterday and we hope for good cooperation with the member states and the european parliament to ensure a smooth legislative process. creating an attractive investment environment is our shared responsibility. the need for an energy union has been felt in europe for a long time. we need an energy policy based on solidarity, trust and security, a better integrated energy infrastructure and more efficient governance. the establishment of the energy union will be one of the priorities of the latvian presidency. we will also continue to work towards the completion of the single market, ensuring coordination of the european semester process within the council. during the latvian presidency, we will review the europe 2020 strategy, promote industrial competitiveness and work towards strengthening the economic and monetary union. we will focus on better regulation. secondly, we want to make europe more digital. we want to unlock europe's digital potential and work towards an effective digital single market. online consumers should have equal access to goods and services at the best price, whether they live in brussels or bratislava, riga or rome. it shall also promote the security and trustworthiness of the digital environment. this will help create jobs and growth and make europe the world's leading knowledge-based economy. we are planning to work on a digital single market strategy and we expect a specific commission proposal soon. the digital agenda assembly in riga will be a great opportunity for policy makers and businesses to meet. the main elements of the digital single market are data protection and balanced reforms in the telecommunications market. we will also focus on cybersecurity and consumer rights. thirdly, we want to see the european union more involved and accountable at international level. we will support the high representative and the european external action service in strengthening the unity of the european union and in promoting regional stability and peace. european neighbours will be a priority for our presidency. we will support the work on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. naturally, our main focus is on the east, but we will also work with equal intensity on issues of importance to our neighbours to the south. the challenges of migration will be on our agenda. we cannot avoid talking about the unprecedented events in our eastern neighbourhood. the russian aggression against ukraine is a threat to the foundations of peace and the rule of law in europe. it is absolutely impossible for the european union to recognise stronger rights that violate the territorial integrity of states. the european union's strength lies in its unity of action. in this context, i would like to thank the member states and the institutions of the european union for their ability to maintain unity when it came to decisions on the european union's response to events in ukraine and the russian aggression. for many in the world, this is a surprise. the latvian presidency will work actively to keep this unity of the european union intact in the future. the eastern partnership summit will take place in riga in may this year. the riga summit will provide an opportunity to assess the progress made since the eastern partnership summit in vilnius. this should serve as a clear signal that the european union is supporting the eastern partnership countries. we also need to look more broadly at the central asian region, where the european union's presence and involvement is not reaching its full potential. we will work actively to review the european union's strategy for central asia. strengthening the international role of the european union also has global aspects. we will help facilitate negotiations on trade agreements with the united states, canada and japan. a robust transatlantic trade and investment partnership would not only deliver more than €100 billion in benefits and economic stimulus to the european union, but also bring geopolitical benefits. the year 2015 is the european year of development. we will focus on the european union's contribution to the un summit on sustainable development and poverty reduction in 2015. the latvian presidency will work towards a common security and defence policy that is responsive to global challenges. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! the latvian presidency aims to build a europe that is competitive, digital and internationally stronger. our aim is to safeguard the european values, freedom, security, rule of law and mutual tolerance that are europe's identity in the world. it's important for us to work closely with you. this is the main reason for my visit today to strengthen our cooperation and to establish a coherent agenda for the council and the european parliament. the latvian presidency is pragmatic and determined. the coat of arms we have chosen as the logo of our presidency was once a key element of innovation. this is a major change for households across europe. to me, the ringstone is a symbol of confidence, stability and energy. i would like the latvian presidency to be associated with these values. we want to strengthen the european union's drive for development, strengthen our faith in the european idea and inspire us to a smart and forward-looking growth, a europe close to the people. thank you.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. - mr president, madam prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have reached a crucial moment in the recent history of the european union. latvia - the unforeseen - is taking over the presidency of the european union. and already, as we quickly forget, we find this quite normal, obvious and natural, while it is a small miracle. thirty years ago, no one in this house or anywhere else could have imagined that latvia would be responsible for presiding over the destinies of the european union. as i said yesterday, this is a great moment in european history, because the latvian presidency is a wonderful symbol of the reconciliation of european history and geography, putting an end to that fatal post-war decree which wanted europe to be divided into two parts for the rest of history. the latvians have escaped the dictates of history and have dictated the course of history. the whole of europe, the whole of the continent, is therefore indebted to latvia, which is a great people and a great nation. we started the latvian journey a week ago in riga, where the commission had gone to discuss the work programme of the latvian presidency with the prime minister and the latvian ministers. this programme of the latvian presidency is fully supported by the commission, if only because the programme of the latvian presidency and the work programme of the european commission are strictly identical. this shows how good intentions and noble inspirations can combine in europe to make europe move forward. to enable the latvian presidency to work under good conditions, the commission adopted yesterday the legislative and regulatory texts relating to the establishment of the european fund for strategic investments. it is a legislative work which is characterized by the fact that it must be written in specific circumstances, because we have no time to lose. i will therefore, as i did two weeks ago, call on our latvian friends, and on your parliament, to speed up the work to enable the strategic fund to find its place in the arsenal of crisis management so that it can be operational by 1 july 2015. the commission has therefore adopted a communication on flexibility in and within the stability and growth pact. i have just read the first articles in the international press and this gives me the opportunity to say that the stability and growth pact remains the stability and growth pact. we haven't changed the rules. we have not made a flexibility pact out of the stability and growth pact. it is not a flexibility pact, it is a stability and growth pact based on what i have called a virtuous triangle of structural reforms, fiscal consolidation, which is still vital, and the revival of investment in europe, so that we can have a growth situation in europe that allows us to stimulate employment. the commission, like the latvian presidency, attaches great importance to digital europe. we will make the first proposals in this respect during the current semester and i plan to discuss digital europe at the college meeting on 25 february. we are not sitting idly by on the energy union. the energy union will be on the agenda on 25 february, with digital europe scheduled for june. we have been given the task by the european council in october of deepening economic and monetary union. there will be a report by the four presidents, the eurogroup, the european central bank, the commission and the european council, chaired by the president of the commission. we will present the first ideas in february and work on them until june. parliament is of course involved in the work of the four presidents, since the presidency of parliament, which represents one of the main institutions of the union, has its full role to play. i would like to make a few comments, madam president, mr president, on the basis of the brief statement made by the latvian prime minister. i am convinced that the latvian presidency and the commission will be able to work closely together, if not in complete complicity. good luck with that.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his excellent report and for the work he has done in the past. latvia is a model, a young country that has had to fight hard for its freedom and democracy, a country that knows the value of freedom of expression and the press and that this is not taken for granted, and a country whose history reflects the core of the european union, namely the pursuit of freedom, peace and common prosperity. it is important to remember the foundations of your country and of our european union, especially at a time - you have said - when we are faced with new questions in paris. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a second thought, which is relevant to the country and to our current situation in europe, is that your country is going through difficult times. in 2009, latvia's economy collapsed with a 14% decline in economic power, an economic tsunami has swept across your country. today latvia is on the growth track again. the gdp has increased in recent years, and it looks even better in the coming years, based on your country's growth data, and unemployment is falling in latvia. in this context, latvia is also a beacon of hope for the european union in difficult economic times, for how to do things right, how to build the future properly. i am grateful to you, mrs straujuma, for the factual approach with which you have also presented the programme. the objectivity of working on the issues is the way to convince people that we are going to work. we in europe are also now past the constitution phase - after we have put the commission in office, completed the elections - and now, in 2015, on the way back to the normal work process. the latvian presidency has an important role to play in this. you mentioned security, the creation of a secure europe. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. i would also ask you once again to look carefully at all the decisions we have already taken and to promote, also in the european council and in the council meetings as a whole, the implementation of the existing measures, to implement them. you mentioned the investment package. we are linking this with the reform agenda that is needed in the member states. you referred to the digital agenda, a mega-theme of our time. i am grateful for the clear statement that you want to put a priority on the data protection regulation, that we are already working on the data protection regulation, which is already on the table, and we are already working on it in the legislative process, where we have found a large majority in the european parliament for the data protection regulation, for the joint decision, and that there is also movement in the council, and that we will soon have really fruitful discussions, which is a big concern for us. i would also like to link this to the ambition of us europeans to make the european voice heard in the global debate on how we deal with big data, how we deal with digitalisation. the european voice must be that not only does freedom on the net count, but that we want to set rules on the net, protect our citizens on the net. you mentioned competition and the internal market. i would like to take up this point, as well as the clear statement on ttip, support for ttip, insofar as we in europe are also having a discussion about social europe, about the fact that we are providing our citizens with social protection. it is important for my group that we have the social debate. but i also want to say: the most important thing in creating social security in europe is to guarantee jobs for our citizens. it's social to create work. that's the most important principle for creating social justice. that is why all the measures that strengthen the economy are also social policies. the last thought i want to address is the neighbourhood policy, russia. you have mentioned it. i appreciate the clarity. europe must stand together and continue along a common path. the start is good, the presidency has started well, the priorities are right. putting the citizens first, the way you do, is the right accent these days. europe now has a latvian leadership and is in good hands. good luck to you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. madam prime minister! mr weber rightly pointed out that you gave a very factual speech. this was in stark contrast to the inaugural speech of your predecessor, mr renzi. mr renzi started here as a tiger, and i must tell you that yesterday he left here as a rabbit. mr renzi has imposed flexibility on mr juncker instead of reforms in italy. mr renzi has ensured that the stability and growth pact has now become a pact of flexibility and contraction. madam prime minister, the eurozone once wanted to go in the direction of maastricht. it is now heading towards rome through mr draghi of the ecb and mr renzi of italy. help us to get on board and get this eurozone back on track towards maastricht.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president of the commission, madam prime minister! i would like to say that this was a very precise, very refreshing and credible start to your presidency of the council. it was a different mindset. this was a thinking for a policy that is based on growth, on ownership, on stimulating investment, not just talking about it all the time, and then providing the proof that you can do it. you speak for a country - and i think it's a matter of pride - that has shown that you can overcome difficulties yourself if you put in the effort, that you can get solid funding for your household, that you can get back to growth even if you're in trouble. this is a successful approach. contrary to the view of my green colleague, who i believe is no longer here, growth is the opportunity to create jobs and thus to improve people's well-being. because people are interested in us doing something, not just talking about it all the time and talking about it, delivering services. i think you should be proud of what you've done in your country. if that is the measure of your presidency and if that is the measure of creating a climate in europe which is favourable to investment, then i can only tell you that you will have the full support of our group. that's exactly what works - that's what you see in your example - and that's what's going to be successful. that is also the difference with what we passed yesterday as the presidency. i agree with the remarks made by this parliament: that was just general talk, but it didn't do anything. and you have done so and you want to give back to the european family what you have done. i hope and wish that what you are planning to do - to create a climate favourable to investment, to ensure that people invest the money they have because they have confidence in politics - will in the end also mean the opportunity for the broad masses of people in europe to find jobs, prosperity and happiness. i thank you for your speech and i have great confidence in your presidency. watch your step.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council! i think it is absolutely right to focus on the question of employment and the revitalisation of industry. this of course includes good trade agreements, because we have a very export-oriented economy and are involved in the global value chain. up to 40% of the value of our exports are already imports. so we need clear and good trade agreements. i therefore urge you to ensure that we do not put good trade agreements, particularly ttip and ceta, at risk by what i consider to be politically and economically unnecessary extrajudicial investment arbitrations. these extrajudicial investment arbitration bodies are not helping to make a single investment in europe, the united states or canada, we do not need them. we must not let these arbitration bodies jeopardize the agreements.
first vice-president of the commission. - mr president, i note with great satisfaction that there is a lot of expectation in parliament for the latvian presidency, and you do not have such a level of expectation without an equal level of trust in the ability of the latvian presidency to perform that duty. the commission fully shares the trust in the latvian presidency. we know from experience that there is only one way europe moves forward, and that is if the three institutions responsible for moving europe forward work together, hand in hand, with a joint programme and with joint ideas about the future. i want to come back to an issue which was raised by one of the honourable members about the ability of latvia to play its part, in the context of its history and its difficult paths in the last couple of years. exactly 24 years ago i was in riga when the oppressor, the soviet union, tried to prevent latvia from fulfilling its destiny of being a free country again, and violence was used on the streets of riga. i was there, i witnessed it, and it is a moment of great pride and joy for me to be standing here today, 24 years later, seeing in this institution the latvian presidency with its ambitions, its talent and its ability to take the european union ahead with our ambitions and with everything we need to do in the next six months. if you had told me in that cold january in 1991 that this was going to happen in january 2015, i would have probably called medical services to have you committed – but here is what has been achieved, thanks to the ambitions of the latvian people to be free. they did not choose to become members of the european union because they wanted somebody in the european commission, because they wanted somebody in the european parliament or because they wanted to be part of institutions. they wanted to be members of the european union because they shared the values upon which the european union is based. that was the european family they wanted to belong to, and they have made these ambitions come true. today those values are being challenged from the outside as well as from the inside of the union, and the ambition of the latvian presidency, mirrored by the ambition i hear today in parliament and by the ambition of the commission, is to face the challenges and give an answer to them: to make sure that more people get jobs in europe, that our rule of law is strengthened in europe, that we are stronger in order to face outside threats, and that we use the potential of the energy union, of the digital single market and of all the things that will create a stronger european economy. i want to conclude by saying that the commission has full trust in the excellence of the latvian presidency and its ability actually to deliver what all of us here today want for the european union.
the president of the council in office. - ladies and gentlemen! members of the commission! first of all, i want to thank you very much for your interest, your comments and your questions. and i want to thank mr frans timmermans for reminding me of what happened in riga in january. i know he was right where that moment hit the hardest. because it's a known emotional moment. i will try to answer your questions, but first i want to say that it is very important that the european parliament, the commission and the council work together. and only together can we achieve what some members of parliament have said, namely that we will work for our people the people of europe. i will group my responses to the comments and questions of the political groups and members into three parts: first, security, then an engaged or global europe and, third, growth. it's for safety. it is the responsibility of all of us to respond to security challenges, and in this respect i consider the schengen system and the free movement of persons to be an inalienable fundamental principle of the european union. i cannot agree with the members who call for the suspension of schengen. by blocking schengen, we will demonstrate our weakness and show those who attack our values that they can take the lead and achieve theirs. i can only repeat what mr gianni pitella said about schengen by name. with regard to the much-mentioned passenger register data, i would urge you to look again at these issues. we understand that the issues are politically sensitive; we can debate the modalities, but we have to act. europe is involved. i absolutely agree that we need to pay equal attention to our neighbours to the south and to the east. i want to reiterate what i said in my speech, which is that russian aggression in ukraine is not just a bilateral issue between russia and ukraine, but it is also a matter of european and global security. the best way for the european union to deal with this crisis is to preserve the unity of the european union on this issue. europe, the european union, must continue to defend its principles in word and deed. we think we need to work in three directions. first, practical and political support should be provided to ukraine and other eastern partnership countries. of course, we also expect reforms to take place in these countries. secondly, relations with russia must be resolved by continuing diplomatic dialogue and pressure, in accordance with international law and the minsk agreements. third, we must strengthen our internal and external security. during the presidency, we will seek to shape the political process and to achieve a peaceful and sustainable solution to the conflict in ukraine, respecting national independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity. we all care about a strong and stable ukraine and i believe russia also cares about a strong and stable ukraine. therefore (and i thank the commission here, which has already done so this year) support must be given to the ukrainian economy. furthermore, in response to the question of mr dimitrios papadimoulis on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip), we believe that ttip should be a mutually beneficial agreement. we must be equal partners for both sides - the european union and the united states of america. in view of the growing public interest in ttip, we will actively work to ensure that the negotiations conducted by the commission are also relevant and reflected in the public. it is very important to inform the public and to provide much more transparency in these talks. as regards growth, as some of my colleagues have already said and as the commission also supports , structural reforms, fiscal responsibility and investment must be the cornerstones of growth in the european union in the years ahead. and investment and the social dimension are interrelated. without growth, any government has a hard time being social. so i think we have to be able to think in both dimensions. we have spoken at length about investment in theory, and today i would like to congratulate the commission and mr juncker on the fact that the commission has proposed an investment proposal to the european union, and that is the mission of the latvian presidency, the commission, and i would also ask parliament to consider it its mission to make the solutions of this investment programme available to our entrepreneurs in the second half of this year. i've heard a lot of talk about latvia's handling of the crisis. thank you for your assessment, and i accept criticism, but it is clear that latvia has overcome the crisis and latvia's growth continues, and we are proud of that. for every country in crisis, i cannot say that latvia will be an example for all countries to follow. each country is unique and each country chooses its own way of dealing with the crisis. we have chosen our own path, and it has been successful. and i want to say that it was not only savings that were the basis of latvia's way of overcoming the crisis. it was also investments, it was the successful use of cohesion funds, it was structural reforms, it was a whole set of measures. and here, mr manfred weber has left, but as i said, i also want to agree with what mr weber and several colleagues have said, that growth is only possible if we find this right balance between fiscal discipline, structural reform and investment in the economy. this is not just a challenge for latvia, but for all of us. the next speaker was mr dimitrios papadimoulis, on cohesion. as i said before, cohesion is very important to us. we understand this, we use it, and we see very well in latvia how both cohesion and the structural funds contribute to our economic growth. the 315 billion investment plan. i would like to reiterate that the latvian presidency will work, on the basis of the december european council decision, to promote a timely agreement. and at the same time, i want to agree with mr robert zille and mr matt carthy that we need to look for ways to encourage investment in every member state of the european union. and of course i agree with mr jean arthuis on the regulation of the investment environment. and it's clear that to implement this investment plan, we need, i'll say it again, we're going to need a trilateral cooperation. and not just the trilateral council. that's all 28 countries. several meps touched on the issue of greece. i want to say that we are following the developments in greece closely. we must take into account and respect the choice made by the greek people on 25 january. we assume that after the elections greece will implement what is agreed and continue the reform programme it has agreed with international leaders or heads of state. changes to the programme may be made, but only if all parties agree. after the greek elections, a mutually acceptable solution will have to be found between greece and the european union. i think we all have an interest in greece staying in the eurozone and keeping the promises it has made to move towards economic recovery. we then had a number of colleagues ask us questions about the energy union. i would like to thank all those who supported this priority of ours, which is one of the conditions for competitiveness, and the latvian presidency will continue to work towards the creation of the energy union. we are pleased that its establishment will start within the framework of the riga process. the key elements of the new energy union must be solidarity between member states, a well-functioning and well-connected internal energy market, strong energy diplomacy, competitive energy and energy independence, and, as some have already mentioned, governance issues. in response to the question by sophia in 't veld and pilar del castillo vera on the single market for telecommunications, the presidency will continue to work on the proposal and will work towards a compromise in the council. i understand that this is not easy, but further work should focus on those elements of the proposal that will add value, namely roaming and net neutrality. we want to achieve a quality solution one that will deliver benefits. we need to avoid the rise in mobile phone costs within member states. in response to ms sophia in 't veld's question on data protection, our presidency's priority is to work actively on the data regulation with the aim of achieving a general approach in the council of justice and home affairs ministers. we believe that in the digital age, a single data protection regulation will strengthen data protection in europe. at the same time, latvia is fully aware of the complexity of the discussions on the remaining issues and on this project as a whole. the mep pavel telička spoke about better regulation. i fully support the work of first vice-president frans timmermans to ensure that we really do get to better legislation, that we always evaluate the most appropriate solution and that our policies are the most forward-looking. i would also like to take this opportunity to call on the european parliament to resume work on the european passenger name record. i call on and trust the european parliament to be a close partner to the council and the commission. members of the house! the commission! i want to thank you all again for your interest, for your questions. this will inspire the latvian presidency's further work. we - each of us - are ready to work with you to build a better europe for every citizen of the european union. thank you all!
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. relations between the european parliament and the united states congress are longstanding and intense. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in december we agreed with the american side to put the strengthening of security and defence cooperation at the centre of the discussions at the next interparliamentary meeting. the american co-presidency of the transatlantic legislative dialogue is very interested in having this meeting in riga. there are two reasons for this: the first is that the transatlantic relationship is based on a common defence and security policy, alongside economic and trade policy. in the light of the very present challenges, a meeting in riga is therefore appropriate. the second important topic of the conference is to be energy security. the latvian presidency has made the 'establishment of an energy union' a priority, so this is also a good fit in terms of content. the symbolic value of a joint meeting between washington and strasbourg meps and the eu presidency will be important in the european and global context. i would ask the latvian presidency to contribute to the success of the interparliamentary meeting and to participate in the political discussions.
in writing. i wish latvia every success in its first presidency of the council since accession. as spokesperson for the social democrats for employment and social affairs, i am pleased that social dialogue should be a priority. i would like to emphasize once again that social dialogue is a cornerstone of european policy. it is therefore impossible that an agreement already signed between the social partners in the hairdressing industry should not be forwarded by the commission to the council. i call on the latvian presidency to put pressure on the vice-president for the euro and social dialogue, mr dombrovskis. the agreement should be transmitted to the council without delay. the commission will also be carrying out a mid-term review of the europe 2020 strategy. we are far from the employment and social objectives we have set ourselves. just to give you an example: instead of 20 million fewer people, there are now seven million more people affected by poverty and social exclusion. it is time to make the social and employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy binding on member states. the social and employment objectives, like economic and financial policies, need to be reviewed in the context of the european semester.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs. - mr president, i am sorry, i was briefing the committee on foreign affairs (afet) on the next foreign affairs council and i guess many of your colleagues are just moving from one room to the other. some were faster than me. permettez-moi de commencer en français avec une pensée sur les actes terribles qui ont eu lieu la semaine dernière à paris. nous avons vu la douleur, le deuil et la solidarité avec les victimes, leurs familles, leurs collègues et leurs amis. nous avons vu la réaction des français, tout d'abord, mais aussi des institutions françaises et européennes, des européens et du monde entier. ce fut une réaction d'unité, d'équilibre et de force, surtout de force. aujourd'hui, de même que demain et dans les semaines et les mois qui viennent, le moment est venu de s'en inspirer et de tirer les leçons du passé. it is not the first time that out of a tragedy we are able to build positive things. actually the european union was born out of the ruins of the second world war, and out of our main tragedy our founding fathers, one of whom resigned today as president of the italian republic, were brave and wise enough to be able to build the most successful experience of regional integration in history. that experience was recognised with the nobel peace prize. if you do not want our europe to become history and be confined to the past, i think we have to be as brave and as wise as our founding fathers were able to be. from the tragedy that happened, if i am not wrong, exactly one week ago in paris, we have a duty to rebuild our european union, stating our unity, our strength and our solidarity, and starting from our strength, our unity and our solidarity – starting somehow from ourselves. you might think this has nothing to do with our debate today, but i believe it does. i believe that what happened last week has shown all european union citizens, and many outside our borders, the first lesson we have to learn, which is that you need to be more united, really united, not only in words, not only on paper, but in practice. we need to trust each other when it comes to sharing information, to foreign policy, defence, and security. we have to understand that what we share is far greater than what divides us and that it is in our interest – our citizens’ interest – when it comes to security, economic prosperity, freedom and rights, to really work closely together and become cooperative and not competitive – as i think was shown yesterday, and again today very well. we are trying to work in a cooperative and non-competitive way among the european institutions here: parliament, the council and the commission. the second lesson that i think we have to learn is that there is no real border between external and internal events, and so there must be no real border between our external and internal action. that is the reason why we are trying to coordinate – and i am personally trying to coordinate – our work within the commission and within the council. i have started doing that already in these first two months, and i am planning to do it even more, in a broader sense, when it comes to foreign, security and defence policy, but also security internally – counter-terrorism – and also justice and other challenges that we have before us, be they migration, energy, climate, transport, trade, the economy, or even culture and education. again, some of you might wonder what this has to do with our foreign and security policy. this is the core, i think, of our security policy: to understand that security is not purely a security or securitarian issue; it is also a security issue and a defence issue, but it is also a human security issue. this has to take into consideration all aspects of everybody’s life. in general, i think we have to look at all the main challenges with a coordinated approach, and this is going to be one of the challenges of our foreign and security policy in the months ahead. we preach policy coherence when it comes to development and cooperation, for instance, but then we rarely do it when it comes to ourselves. i think we should take a slogan from a famous brand – ‘just do it’ – and try to be coherent and consistent ourselves. the third lesson i think we need to work on in the coming months on foreign and security policy is that there is no simple answer to complex problems. if we look around us, whether close by or far away, we see complexity as the first element. that is evident in the middle east, and let me take this opportunity to thank this parliament for its excellent work over the months of november and december on the resolution on the middle east peace process, the very fruitful debate we had, and the resolution that was passed and which i think was very helpful. but there is no single problem around us that is a black and white issue. this means that we need, on one hand, as i said, a mix of measures and instruments and to make sure that all the things we do go into a coherent approach. but this also requires a deeper understanding of what is happening inside the european union, around the european union and also far away from the european union. to do that we probably need to develop some cultural instruments inside our borders. we tend to use categories of thoughts that are still the ones we had in the last century. this has nothing to do with east and west, but with our identity, our models of life in society and our relations with other countries. when it comes to diplomacy, we do indeed have the usual instruments of diplomacy and the new instruments of diplomacy – digital diplomacy and so on – but i think we are still sometimes using the old categories in terms of how we relate to other countries, other organisations and other regions of the world, and old ways of projecting our image of the european union, which probably no longer corresponds to the reality of history. that is really crucial for following up the tragic events in paris. other points. we need to develop a mix of immediate actions and long-term strategies. we tend to react to whatever comes in immediate terms. then how effective we are in delivering on the immediate terms is another story, and i think this also calls for deep thinking about the functioning of our institutions. this is not for today. but then sometimes – or often – we lack long-term strategies and long-term visions. i think we need to engage seriously on that in the coming months with our partners around us, starting – we have just discussed this in the committee on foreign affairs (afet) in a restricted format – by engaging with countries that have a knowledge that is deeper than ours but which maybe do not have the same instruments that we have to tackle the issues to which their knowledge applies, whether this is to the east of our borders or to the south or in the gulf. but most of all i think that we ourselves have to make a cultural change. what surprised me on sunday in paris – and i am sorry if i take it personally, but i think that is also part of our political and institutional life – was the image of hundreds of thousands of citizens in paris clapping the leaders as the leaders showed unity, solidarity and physical presence together. this image of the citizens of a country that had been attacked only a few days before, with the sense of tension and difficulties in sight, clapping what was somehow a picture of europe is something that i think we have to keep in our minds and in our hearts, because this poses questions for us here. we tend to have debates – i cannot say very much about this chamber, but i have been listening quite a lot in recent months – but we tend to have an image of europe as something that is little, limited, very partial and very weak. that might be the case, but that image of french citizens clapping the image of europeans, standing strong and together, has to give us the responsibility to work on our own perception of our power. and i will use the word ʽpowerʼ, which is not a usual european word. normally we tend to be humble, and this is good. one can be a power, one can be even a superpower, using that with a sense of being humble and facilitating dialogue and mediation – and yes, we are a superpower. we are a superpower that won the noble peace prize, and i think that the major responsibility and lesson we have to draw from what has happened in recent weeks is that we have to be the major superpower for action for peace, for action for human rights, dialogue and respect – knowing, as only europeans know, that peace is not only the absence of war; peace is also respect and the promotion of human rights, security and equality. i do not know if that answers the question of what kind of foreign policy challenges we have in front of us. if you want, i have a long list – 23 pages actually – of single issues and single countries and our concrete commitment on each and every one of these issues and these countries and regions. i would tend not to go through that list but just say that there is not one single global issue or region of the world, or country in the world, where we can afford as europeans not to increase our presence, our role as actors for peace. i would, obviously, be ready to go through that list – taking a selective approach probably, because 23 pages would make us stay here even longer than midnight, which is the time scheduled at the moment – but afterwards, after your interventions, to be more specific in my reply on many of the issues that we have been debating very precisely in these months – these two-and-a-half months in which i think i have met you in different formats some 15 or 16 times probably, and again yesterday on libya and today on many other of the issues which are the top priority issues of today for the european union. we will also have another three chances, i think, to have a strategic, complete discussion in the coming months here in this chamber. one is when we will discuss the brok report quite soon, and that will be a very good opportunity to go through a strategic debate and review on that, and we have already started to do that with the national parliaments as well. the second will be the preparation for the june european council, where i will have the responsibility of presenting an assessment of global security, and let me also share with you the fact that (third element) i believe that that will also be the opportunity for starting a process to have a new security strategy for the european union. let me also add that, rather than having this security strategy, i would suggest that we have a foreign policy and security strategy, as we will need to have that coherent and broad approach when we debate our own strategies for the future too. let me conclude by just saying that i know some of you might have expected me to go through that 23-page list and to remind you again that i am ready to discuss with you – be it on our engagement with latin america, where i will be in a couple of weeks’ time to prepare the eu celac summit, or on climate change, where we will have on monday an action plan for diplomacy to prepare for the paris summit in december, or counter-terrorism again, where we will work in coordination with the interior and justice ministers – but also, i think, have an intercultural and inter-religious exercise to be developed over the next months, more on the internal side but also involving players in the region; or, obviously, a discussion on ukraine and russia, which we will have just after this discussion today; or our relations with asia or africa, where again i will be participating in the african union summit in less than two weeks. or our relations with the united states. that is normally automatically associated with the negotiations for ttip, which is something we can discuss, obviously. but we also have to be aware of the fact that a lot of the strategies and challenges that we have before us will need to be developed together with a partner that is probably going through difficult times as much as we are. finally, most of all let me say that what is also crucial today for me is listening to you. i know this is mainly a chance for you to put questions, but let me say that for me, the most precious time here in this chamber is taking notes on what you say.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. madam vice-president, please put the 23 pages in the minutes. i'd be interested in reading these then. that would be an easy way to do it. but i thought it was good that the vice-president did not come here with questions of detail, but we are - and the events in paris have clearly shown this to us - in a situation where we can no longer distinguish clearly between foreign and domestic policy. this is closely related. and we must also give a coherent answer to this for reasons of security, for reasons of values, for many reasons. i think we must see here that we are also facing a deadly threat and blackmailing from terrorists in domestic politics. and we need to see cyber attacks being used. the case of sony and north korea in the united states is one such case. that means we have tools where you can achieve foreign policy goals by making domestic threats, by shutting down computer networks, by killing people -- blindly, no matter who -- and that's what democratic politics has to respond to. i think we don't have the intellectual answer yet to how this new modern vulnerability can be addressed by modern democracies. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region, and that the european union is able to play a full part in the development of the region. we must see that only if you have economic strength can you play a role in foreign policy. you are absolutely right when you say: it is a situation that we are a superpower. we are still the strongest economic power in the world - in terms of trade, gdp, etc. we are not in a position to translate this into political language as others do. that is why your clustering is right, but it can only be a first step, and that is why the question is how we can move forward in the area of the summit, which should be postponed, and in the area of security and defence policy, in order to better coordinate the european union's defence capabilities and to create more credibility in this area. i was just saying that this has to be a complex, whole work of art if we are to have a sensible strategy for the world.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we're in the middle of world war iii. but in a war of installments. there are economies that have to fight wars to survive. so they make and sell weapons. who said that? it was the head of the catholic church, pope francis. and christian values are very important in this house. so if economies need war to survive, then those economies need to change. the european union must not be left to the mercy of the governments of the member states, which are the ones who are responsible for the economic and social problems of the world. the european values - human rights, humanity - are invoked, but the common foreign and security policy is not the solution to the conflicts around us, but is a co-author of many wars. with more and more arms deliveries and military interventions, war is expected to become the norm again, with nato and the us on the side. if we really want peace and stability, we must begin by effectively combating poverty, which is the breeding ground for violence and terrorism, and not continue to misuse development funds for security and military training. cooperation with the supporters of isis in the gulf states must finally be ended. immediate withdrawal of the patriot missiles from turkey, that would finally be a clear message to turkey, which still allows isis fighters to syria. support for the un-led dialogue in libya: yes. further military intervention by the us or france: no. they will continue to drive the country into the abyss. the war is making refugees, says the lampedusa refugee movement. and the eu then pushes back these refugees. is that humanity? if we do not succeed in correcting the path of war exploitation which has been taken in other parts of the world, the consequences of the misery we have created will not hold europe back. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into that. you just linked nato and the united states to warfare. would you agree with me that in europe, russia is currently at war with ukraine, or am i wrong?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would not answer that, in fact. the war in ukraine has many causes. it's a civil war, different sectors fighting each other. this war was also the result of european intervention in this region. i also want to mention in this speech the common policy of war that europe is pursuing in other countries of the world.
i have to say, madam president, the security landscape in europe and its immediate neighbourhood has deteriorated dramatically over the past year, with brutal repercussions even in the heart of europe. we must respond appropriately in all relevant bodies. we parliamentarians try to give various incentives, we are not the executive. we are preparing, for example, together with the committee on budgets, our own own initiative report on the future financing of the csdp. i ask: what are your plans, mrs mogherini, to ensure the financing of the internal dimension of the csdp? i am referring to the relationship between the csdp and the internal market, industrial policy, space, research and development. how will the commission's defence task force continue its work? should the defence agency, the member states or the european parliament be involved in an appropriate way? we expect the june defense summit to show concrete progress. the preparatory documents presented so far seem to me to be more of a reformulation of the conclusions of the december 2013 summit. that wouldn't be enough. what are your personal priorities? if one of the points is the formulation of a foreign and security policy strategy, as you have called it, i would welcome that. but that's not enough. what else do you want to achieve?
i have to say, madam president, mrs mogherini, i share your description of the great message that the people of france sent to us all on sunday. i saw a lot of republican pride there. we can all take great encouragement from this. instead of kneeling, the citizens stood up. at the same time, it has become clear - and the images have been of great symbolic value - that we can only tackle these challenges together in a european way, with the full range of instruments at our disposal. but just as we are united in europe in our opposition to terrorists, so we want to be united in europe in our opposition to those who want to exploit these brutal attacks politically in order to sow hatred among us. it is wrong what has been said here that we must focus on ourselves and not so much on the series of crises around us. on the contrary! europe can only secure its cohesion and peace at home if we take responsibility for peace, justice and cohesion in our neighbourhood and globally. and that includes using the tools that we have to support, for example, liberal voices in the arab world that stand for the same values that we do. i'll give you an example of raif badawi in saudi arabia, who is now getting 50 lashes for 20 weeks because he stands for liberal values like us. we must use the eu's foreign policy instruments - the human rights instrument, the security and stability instrument and the partnership instrument - to make europe a true force for peace!
mr president, i would like to underline to mrs mogherini three aspects which, in my opinion, have not been addressed yet and are important to ensure a successful common foreign and security policy. firstly, the european union, as we all know, is especially powerful in its immediate neighbourhood. therefore it is necessary to strengthen the eu’s set of external instruments. the european neighbourhood policy should combine a long-term structural engagement with better instruments for a short-term impact. secondly, the european union should have a key role in terms of strengthening the eastern partnership, on the one hand, and maintaining the dialogue with russia on the other. with regard to the eastern partnership summit in riga, which will take place in may, i welcome the fact that the latvian presidency has announced a more individual approach towards the countries in the eu’s eastern neighbourhood, since we all know that one size does not fit all. thirdly, and finally, i believe that accession countries need to align their foreign and security policy with the eu acquis. we should be very clear on this and call for implementation in all areas. this includes decisions introducing restrictive measures against russia as long as they are necessary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mrs mogherini, i very much appreciated your explanation of why we need a common foreign and security policy. it's the defense of our core values and our identity. i would encourage you to repeat this term, the superpower for peace and freedom, again and again. this must be borne in mind, even if the opponents of europe do not like to hear it. i believe that you have a lot of support in the public, including in the uk, for the defence of freedom and peace. well, you said that the challenges are complex and we need a whole package of measures. we are not a military power, we are a civilian power. we have tools we can use. the fight against terrorism is a matter of security for the citizens. the question is whether we are well equipped, whether we have the instruments to protect ourselves against terrorism, both in terms of intelligence services and in terms of european prosecution by the european public prosecutor's office. i think these questions should be on your agenda.
you are the only speaker from your group. you had a blue card before, and there are so many speakers – i see that ana gomes wants to speak as well, and she did not even have a blue card before, so i have to make a choice. i have way too many speakers under the catch-the-eye procedure. i apologise if you do not get to speak this time round; there are a number of debates that will follow. i hope you will have a chance.
this has been a very useful debate, giving life to article 36 of the treaty. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the recent atrocities in northern nigeria (2015/2520(rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the victims of the attacks in france have rightly received our attention and sympathy in recent days. we expressed this with "je suis charlie". i 'm missing a slogan: " we are nigerians . " that would have been good, it would have expressed the european and world-wide concern. the people there deserve it. are we powerless to deal with all the terrorist activity across the entire sub-saharan region from mauritania to mali, niger, chad, nigeria, kenya, somalia? we must urgently challenge the political elites in these countries, and particularly in nigeria. member states have helped train security forces in nigeria, but without success. on the contrary! the security forces operate partly without democratic legitimacy, without control, without pressure to justify themselves. this is also true when we consider the causes of the emergence of boko haram and other terrorist groups. we need to look at how we are fighting corruption right now in nigeria. in the last decade alone, €80 million has disappeared from the oil and gas industry - money that this country desperately needs to restore fairness. we have a political leadership elite that is enriching itself -- as are the military, as are businessmen -- while at the same time being in absolute, extreme poverty. what we can do, in particular, is also to give more support to the ngos that are good in nigeria, in civil society, in the judiciary and in the media.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the humanitarian situation in ukraine is a matter of great concern to us, and rightly so. the daily life in conflict zones is becoming unbearable for more and more people. this is also true of 600 000 refugees in their own country and another 600 000 refugees in neighbouring countries, the vast majority of whom are ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. but, madam president, let the epp discuss this a little, they desperately need it, and then they will come to an agreement. and over 600,000 people in neighbouring countries who are also refugees in need of help. more humanitarian aid than ever is urgently needed. solidarity is not demonstrated by our speeches in this parliament, but by our actions. the international red cross would be a quick solution, and the help must be quick, because they need it now and not in the summer. to really improve the situation, we reiterate today once again that the withdrawal of russian soldiers and mercenaries must happen now and not some time. we call on all parties to implement the minsk protocols without delay. i know it's not an easy time for the government in ukraine and they've done a lot. the elections are a positive example. and yet, it is now important to advance and implement reforms, regardless of the conflict: among other things, to consolidate the functioning rule of law, to have an independent judiciary, to carry out a constitutional reform including the necessary decentralisation and, above all, to fight corruption. then the people in ukraine will feel the difference the difference they once went to the maidan for. our support is guaranteed, it is safe for them.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also aware of the fact that the it has been decided since yesterday that the planned astana meeting will not take place. so, once again, the opportunity to talk to each other was lost. in view of the ten innocent people who have died, i find it cynical to invoke the absence of any preconditions for a meeting. if we want to do more than speak out for immediate peace in ukraine and its territorial integrity, we must finally put aside ritualised rhetoric and assess the processes in real terms. there will be no military solution in eastern ukraine, and at the latest both sides, the political and military leaders in kiev and in the donbass, must each make their contribution to peace. whether they do and, if not, why not, would be a matter for concrete discussion. it is debatable whether mr yatsenyuk, despite his elected legitimacy, is really the natural ally of the eu. his political credo, which he also actively presented in berlin these days, is: it is always the other's fault, politically inconvenient and his own actions are more beautifully spoken in the mainstream lexicon. what his government has done so far is to massively freeze social benefits, to lay off people en masse, to drastically raise prices, to implement a completely unregulated privatisation programme, which according to ukrainian media, only makes oligarchs like firtash richer and more influential. it's a dramatic increase in military spending, of which as much as 30 percent has disappeared into corrupt channels. the budget for 2015 does not provide for one hryvnia for the supposedly central fight against corruption. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i said that mr. yatsenyuk is democratically legitimized by the elections. the question is, however, whether he and his policies are the only point of contact for the european union when we are dealing with the real situation in ukraine. what's going on socially? i was there and i was told that unless something decisive changes very quickly in the social, economic structure, in the implementation of real political reforms, we will see the next maidan. people are hoping for change in this country. we must support this as the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i won't say "dear mr. scholz" because i think you're not discussing things properly. there would be no reason at all to discuss a humanitarian emergency in eastern ukraine if russian strategists - i don't know exactly at what point - had not decided that they are not ready to accept the territorial integrity of ukraine. you may not like it, but the problem started with the annexation of crimea, and it's continued with the systematic destabilization, supported by russia, in eastern ukraine. the causes of the war in eastern ukraine must unfortunately be sought today in the russian government. no one, especially no german, would dare to say today that belgium started shooting. i would ask you to analyse this conflict and to look at the root causes of the problem. (applause from the centre) minsk, minsk is an agreement that came about because the europeans put pressure on the ukrainian government and the russian government to negotiate. the minsk agreement is a compromise, very much in favour of those responsible for terrorism in eastern ukraine. if we want to enforce this compromise, which is the only way to bring about peace, the only way to stop the humanitarian catastrophe in the occupied territories, then we must stick to the concept of economic sanctions. i am glad that you have said once again that there is a consensus in this concept to continue to make politics, to rely on economic sanctions, not to rely on a military solution. but it's not the way we react in russia. that is the key to talks in astana or no talks in astana. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. that's another debate. my group - everyone will remember this - and my party also took to the streets against the war in iraq. the war in iraq cannot in any way be used as a justification for a war in eastern ukraine. those who opposed the iraq war should not be afraid to criticize and act against the war in eastern ukraine. (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a further question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. we have explicitly pointed out in our resolution that there are indeed terrorists who have been sent to this war. there's been some discussion for a while about people being known from chechnya. the name girkin is now known throughout the world, and the problems we have in peacemaking are also due to the fact that it is very difficult to conduct a reasonable dialogue in a region where not a system of separatists, led by properly elected politicians, has been established, but where a system of warlords, of mafiosi, of criminals has been established, and they are led by russian soldiers ... (the president cut the speaker off) (the speaker agrees to answer a further question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i don't want to deny that there are nationalists in ukraine. but there is no movement in ukraine, as far as i can tell, that has the will to carry out conquest campaigns in neighbouring countries. you'd have to show me that first. the new ukrainian nationalism is very much the result of the attack by russia. i want a nation - italy is famous for not being nationalist, you have seen right-wing movements in europe - that is attacked without such nationalist reactions. (the president cut the speaker off) )
i have to say, madam president, the conflict, as described here, is always exacerbated when unilateral sanctions are imposed instead of talking to each other. i am appalled at how strongly the rhetoric of the cold war has returned to this house. have you not noticed that the current situation has brought the euro to its lowest level since it was created? the ruble is falling into the abyss. the commission also notes that the increase in the number of newly registered companies in the union is due to the increase in the number of newly registered companies. the sanctions we have adopted are weakening the euro and destroying thousands of jobs in eu agriculture. the sanctions also affect the countries of the eurasian economic union: kazakhstan, belarus ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am amazed at the consistency of the arguments of the left and the npd in germany when i hear mr scholz and mr voigt here. everyone seems to be to blame for the crisis, except russia. it's that russia has invaded a foreign country and annexed it and that the minsk agreement is an attempt to make sure that you get a handle on that. and since we - the european union and nato - do not want to go to war over ukraine, sanctions are the instrument to tell the aggressor that aggression is expensive. it's not just that, it's the oil and so on. we are ready - and the resolution says so clearly - to talk to russia. i want all channels open. every format, whether it's astana, geneva or whatever, every possibility of conversation must be sought. i also think it is right that the astana meeting does not take place because russia has not made it possible for this to lead to far-reaching agreements. such talks at the top must have results! the commission and the high representative are doing a good job there, and we must say that we should continue to do so with our position, and that is why we do not want the sanctions to be lifted unless the minsk agreements are also gradually fulfilled and implemented. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to say, by the way: we have a bad situation in ukraine, but also because exactly two years ago russia started trade restrictions against ukraine in order to bring the country to its knees and get away from free choices. the country is in a difficult situation because a foreign country has invaded with its own troops. now to draw a line from the fact that mr. yatsenyuk has not yet made this a flourishing country mr. scholz, with such an argument you should be ashamed! we want peace and we want freedom for all the peoples of europe, and no great neighbouring nation should have the right to impose its will on smaller nations! this is the europe of the future! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. firstly, we should avoid genocide against a dictator in kosovo. that's the difference. in crimea, there were very wide autonomy rights for the russian population, which are not available anywhere in russia for minorities. the third point is that there were no free elections. there has been a military occupation, and there was no alternative. that is why this was not a fair referendum, but one, as we know very well, with a very low turnout. i would therefore ask that we do not go down that road with crimea. i know that your party has been observing elections there and has received money from mr putin for its campaign in france. that's not the basis for a serious conversation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. today a number of violations of international law, especially by russia, have been denounced. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the peoples of europe are respected. but in the same resolution you, ladies and gentlemen, now also want to consider ukraine's membership of the eu. i wonder if we do not already have enough problems among us in the present form of the european union that we should now be thinking about enlarging it. and then, ladies and gentlemen, think seriously about whether ukraine could not also be a member of nato in the future! i wonder if you're still aware of reality. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the situation in the former yugoslavia. finally, we want to adopt tomorrow a resolution on russia which quite frankly supports the interference in russia's internal affairs with considerable financial resources! that's the worst kind of lying!
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i believe we can make our aid to ukraine even more targeted, and i believe that the number of people the commission is sending is far from sufficient. i think we should remember what we did in practice for many candidates in the pre-accession process. we have, for example, done twinning of authorities, that is, twinning of experienced authorities in the old member states, particularly in the reform of the authorities. we also have some - i know this from my member state - institutions that do nothing but translate laws en bloc, for example, when they have proved their worth - so to shorten the time a little so that ukraine can also quickly implement and realize what is necessary. i think we can do much more to save time, and i think we have many allies in the political groups. i think of at least four of the governing coalitions where people were directly elected from the maidan to the various parties - also to parliament. these are also the drivers of real reforms against the old structures. otherwise, it must be clear that sanctions will of course only be lifted if russia fulfils the conditions laid down in the minsk agreements. and i am still surprised that there is a kind of hitler-stalin pact in the making here, from the far left and the far right. that is a scandal which we should be talking about again and again.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the secretary of state for latvia. if mrs mogherini could listen now, that would be nice. mrs. mogherini, i'd like you to listen, because i want to pay you a compliment. you've been sitting here for six hours straight. we cannot have debates like this in the future. i would like to appeal to the bureau - you have used up the fourth or fifth vice-president by now, because the debate is taking so long - to work more intensively in the future. less is more. i shall concentrate in my speech on one point in the european year of development, namely the continuing under-financing of our development cooperation. i see this quite differently from mr jansen, who comes from a member state which has contributed to the fact that we have a huge underfunding of development cooperation. talk to the eu delegations in the developing countries. last year development programmes had to be cut back, development programmes were extended into the next year. we as the eu have called on ngos, aid organisations to provide prefinancing. this is not how development cooperation can be. our citizens want effective development cooperation. this includes reasonable funding. if we are to uphold european values - such as solidarity, aid, love of neighbour and human dignity - this will require reasonable funding. that is why i am calling on the member states to help ensure that the eu's under-financing of this issue is no longer taking place and to move closer to the common target of spending 0.7% of the budget on development cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the alignment of the post-2015 sustainable development goals makes the need for a coherent development policy all the more urgent. this means, first and foremost, that development cooperation is closely linked to other policy areas such as human rights, immigration and refugee policy, climate change, conflict management, but also - and above all - trade policy. i believe that policy coherence must be the guiding principle of this year's theme. this is done in three steps: good coordination within the european commission, improved coordination between the european institutions and good coordination among the eu member states responsible for implementing development cooperation in the council. in addition to the european union, some countries, such as denmark and finland, already regularly submit a coherence report to their national parliaments. it would be a very great success for the european year of development if all european nations would follow suit. we should also use the development year to link further national initiatives with the european level. in the federal republic of germany, for example, there is a proposal to the bundestag "good work worldwide" calling for the worldwide implementation of ilo labour standards. in addition, in germany, the federal minister for development has pushed for a textile alliance, but this has reached its limits. the initiative was designed to improve working conditions in the countries of origin by tracing the trade chains in the textile industry. however, because fair trade is so complex, such initiatives are not successful at national level but at eu level. i therefore call on our development commissioner and the high representative to take a leading role on the part of the eu commission in these initiatives. it would also be desirable if the commission could provide further information material on the european year of development which is appropriate for young people. this will make it even easier to make it a european year of citizens. i also thank you very much for the opening in riga, where i was able to attend, and for mrs mogherini's long presence here in the chamber today.
mr president, the honourable member is right. the human rights situation in egypt is being dramatically trampled underfoot. that is why we are adopting the resolution tomorrow. but that alone is not enough. the situation is that the muslim brotherhood is trying with all its might to get back into government. they're making armed demonstrations, murdering and kidnapping. more importantly, a large part of the egyptian population is starving. and this is the opportunity for the muslim brotherhood, who are doing a minimal amount of help and therefore get a lot of praise. i therefore urge you not to stick to this resolution, otherwise it will do nothing. we must accept the causes of the difficulties and we must increase aid to the government so that the economy can get back on its feet. i therefore urge you, high representative, to see that the funds are increased so that the economy can get back on its feet.
vpc/hr. mr president, as you have rightly pointed out, but i would also like to remind mr bonanno, it is not my personal responsibility to organise the agenda and the agenda of this house, nor is it my responsibility or ability to organise and ensure the presence of members in this house, including those of mr bonanno's group. i would like to thank the european parliament for this debate, for this approach, and also for showing that the issue is not just an italian issue, but a matter which concerns several european citizens - some estonian and british citizens were mentioned - and it is generally a matter concerning the protection of the human rights of european citizens, whatever the nationality of the 28, respect for the principles of international law, the protection of military personnel engaged in anti-piracy missions and therefore the credibility of our anti-piracy actions themselves. it is therefore a matter for the european union and i am taking care of it in that sense, although the decisions on the legal handling of the case will of course remain entirely in the hands of the italian government, as it should be, with whom i believe i must continue to liaise very closely. i also pledge myself tonight, although it is not the specific case of the resolution you are voting on, to liaise closely with the estonian government and the british government on similar cases and any other similar cases which may arise in other circumstances. i will therefore personally take steps which i hope will be useful not only in solving this case but also in preventing other possible similar cases in the future.
ombudsman. - mr president, i would like to start by putting on record my deep appreciation for the overwhelming vote of support i received in this chamber for my re-election last month. it is a huge source of support for me personally, for my strategy and for my colleagues, who work hard on a daily basis to implement that strategy. such wide parliamentary support is crucial to the success of any ombudsman, and i promise to build on that support by continuing to work closely with this parliament. i cannot operate without your support, and equally i work to ensure that the people you represent will have access to an independent source of investigation and redress if they feel they have been unfairly treated by an eu institution. our work is complementary. thank you, mr wałęsa, and all the shadow rapporteurs, for your work over the past months on the report before us today. the report shows a clear understanding of the challenges and opportunities facing the office of the european ombudsman as we attempt to keep pace with the evolving expectations placed upon us by european citizens. and, as their directly elected representatives, you know how fast the hopes, expectations and concerns of people in europe today are changing. honourable members, this is my first time addressing you in plenary. however, since coming into office in october 2013, i have addressed you in committee a total of eight times, including before the committee on petitions, the committee on budgetary control and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. each time i have benefited from your expertise, your advice and support, and from that of the staff who support your work. these committee hearings and our many one-on-one meetings have strengthened my understanding of our work together at european level and have fed directly into the strategy i have developed for my office. my task as the third european ombudsman is to take the office to the next level and make sure it continues to succeed and to thrive. my work at the end of 2013, when i took office, and over the past year of 2014 has been about putting those words into action. recently, i published our five-year strategy entitled ‘towards 2019’, which you refer to in paragraph 21 of today’s report. my strategy is to combine three objectives – to ensure relevance, to increase visibility and so to achieve greater positive impact. to begin executing this strategy, i first undertook, as promised, an internal audit of the procedures and practices of the ombudsman’s office. this involved consulting with staff at every level and is leading to a number of internal changes, including the introduction of a modern complaint-handling system, a process begun by my predecessor, which will enable us to achieve greater internal efficiencies in complaint handling; a review of how we draft our case decisions to make them more citizen-focused; a review of our key performance indicators; and a review of our complaint inquiry processes, which will allow us to identify the key cases early and to prioritise them. these changes will, i believe, lead to an overall better service to citizens. with an office of around 70 staff, i see it as my duty to use the resources at my disposal to the maximum possible effect. to ensure our work becomes more relevant to the major concerns of ordinary european citizens and residents, i have made greater use of my power to launch inquiries in the public interest without necessarily a specific complaint as basis. to that end, i appointed an own initiative investigation coordinator, whose job is to drive the own-initiative inquiries in collaboration with her colleagues and to ensure that the outcomes are both speedy and effective. last year we opened own-initiative inquiries into the transparency and balance of commission expert groups, the transparency of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership negotiations, the way in which eu institutions are implementing the new rules on protecting whistle-blowers, the commission’s handling of the european citizens initiative, the way in which fundamental rights are protected in the eu cohesion fund programmes, and how frontex ensures compliance with the charter of fundamental rights in its important and difficult work. two other major ongoing inquiries of significant relevance concern how the commission manages potential conflict of interest when eu officials leave for employment elsewhere – the so-called ‘revolving doors’ issue – and an ongoing inquiry into how the european medicines agency supports the transparency demands of parliament in relation to clinical trial studies for medicines in the eu. i appreciate the fact that the committee on petitions welcomes these inquiries in point 24 of its report. to achieve greater visibility, i have focused on ensuring that our work is better communicated to you, the elected representatives, to our stakeholders and to the public. media commentary and media monitoring suggest that that strategy is having a significant impact, with details of our cases and other work now regularly featuring in the brussels media outlets and also in mainstream member state media and further afield. in addition, i now send you, the members, a digest of our work, and i hope i have demonstrated my willingness to have ongoing dialogue with you on subjects of mutual concern. we have also focused on our social media outreach and have trebled our twitter followers in one year. i hope many of you have seen our new-format annual report, which uses many new media technologies to make it more readable and attractive. i believe the new strategy has already had a positive impact and i am very grateful to all of the officials in the institutions i have dealt with for their largely positive engagement with my office. in december 2013 we had a positive response from the commission in two major cases. one concerned an unreasonable delay in relation to a state aid investigation into certain professional football clubs; the other concerned an alleged conflict of interest for the former chair of the ad-hoc ethics committee for commissioners. the chair stepped down after my intervention, and the commission has since made the work of the ad-hoc ethics committee more transparent, which i welcome. in relation to the european medicines agency, i believe the intervention of my office, together with concerned members of parliament and civil society, helped to make sure that their new transparency policy was not rolled back, as it had appeared it would be when details of the new policy were announced in 2014. following, again, the strong intervention of a coalition of concerned members of parliament and civil society and an inquiry by my office into the lack of transparency around the ttip negotiations, the council released the mandate for wider public scrutiny, which i welcome. the commission, as you know, has also announced other steps forward on transparency. recently we made further constructive suggestions, and i expect the commission’s response to those suggestions in march. in recent weeks i have also listened to the new juncker commission. i have been heartened by the commitments on, and the real progress made toward, greater transparency, openness and accountability, particularly by vice-president timmermans on my right here today, and i pledge to work as collaboratively as possible with the commission at all levels to help them achieve those goals. indeed, the commission is actually leading on many issues of good administration in the eu today, and for that they deserve our recognition. to conclude, can i put on record again how impressed i am by the high standards of the european civil service, the thousands of dedicated people who work in the eu institutions and agencies all over europe? the vast majority work hard to achieve high standards in their work and display a true ethic of public service. however, as we know, trust in both the eu and national levels of governance is not always very high at the moment in europe. there are reasons to hope that we are slowly beginning to emerge from the painful recession and banking crisis. the people of europe will regain trust in their governing administrations when they begin to see, for their families and in their daily lives, positive changes deriving from the decisions made. however, unlike most nation states in europe which are largely legitimate in the eyes of their citizens, the eu administration has not yet achieved the high levels of popular legitimacy which, in the eyes of many europeans, it should enjoy. today’s report correctly recognises, in paragraph 3, that ‘wide gap’. this is why it is so important for the eu administration to be not only of the highest possible quality, but indeed to be the ‘gold standard’ in ethics, transparency, accountability and effectiveness. my task as european ombudsman is to work with the institutions and agencies to help make that happen. as you, the members of the european parliament, have recently trusted me to continue as european ombudsman, i promise to do my best to continue working to fulfil that task. finally, let me conclude by again thanking the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs, their staff and the secretariats for all the work on the report, and i look forward to listening to your contributions and questions.
first vice-president of the commission. - mr president, first of all i want to thank mr wałęsa for his report. i congratulate him on the excellent work he has done on behalf of your parliament. secondly, of course, congratulations are due to ombudsman mrs o’reilly for being re-elected by your parliament. you appreciate her work and so does the commission, and i look forward to working with her along the same lines as she has just expressed. i am really very proud to be part of the leadership of what i would call one of the best administrations public service has in the world. but i am also committed to improving the way it works, to making sure that we work more transparently, that we are more accountable and that we also change the situation when the situation is not up to the standards both parliament and the commission want. we have examined the wałęsa report with great interest. transparency, openness, access to information, respect for the rights of citizens, high ethical standards: essential building blocks for creating greater support for european institutions at large. i fully concur with what mrs o’reilly just said, namely that the level of quality of our institutions is not reflected in the level of support from european citizens, and we need to work on that if we are to get the mandate from our constituents to do what needs to be done to create more prosperity and to create more jobs and to create more security for european citizens. i also note, and mr wałęsa referred to it, that the share of complaints against the commission has risen, and i have listened carefully to his call that we should reduce that, and i agree with him. i just want to, very briefly, tell you that in actual numbers, complaints between 2012 and 2013 have gone down. it is the share that has gone up – and this is unacceptable, so we will work on that – but just to make sure we do not misunderstand that there is actually, in numbers, a reduction in complaints. i would just like to point out that if you compare the institutions, the highest compliance – 84% – by institutions with the ombudsman’s recommendations is by the commission, and let me just note very briefly that 100% compliance will for legal reasons probably never be possible. but i strive to have the highest possible compliance. i also want to salute and welcome the approach of the ombudsman to focus on strategic investigations, because strategic investigations can discern patterns, and patterns are the things we need to change if we want to improve the way we run our administration. i will support her and work with her very closely to make a success of her recommendations emanating from these strategic investigations. i also note that mr wałęsa calls for common binding rules and principles on administrative procedure, and i just want to reiterate what i said at my hearing: that we will discuss the best possible way of implementing that. i know that a european law on administrative procedure is one of the options that could work there, but let us work between the commission and parliament on that to see what would be the best possible solutions. i have noted also the conclusion that the percentage of complaints concerning eu agencies has almost doubled. here again i offer cooperation, within the possibilities we have legally, to improve that on the boards of these agencies etc., and there again i would like to work closely with the ombudsman and with parliament to ensure improvement. finally, the complaints against epso have indeed decreased significantly, and i think i would echo mr wałęsa’s conclusion that this is to be applauded. once again, i look forward to working closely with mrs o’reilly and her team. she has an outstanding team. they have a strong dedication to improving the quality of our administration and to answering enquiries and complaints from european citizens, and it is in all our interests to make sure that her work is successful. i will certainly guarantee you my personal commitment to making that happen.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not first of all, i would like to congratulate the ombudsman on her election last december. the fact that there was no opposition candidate in this election can certainly be seen as a positive testimony to her work to date. speaking of elections, i will continue to advocate that in future parliament should once again introduce the practice of allowing the ombudsman to address parliament immediately after the elections. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr wałęsa, once again. i would like to support the report 150%. i would like to add three brief remarks or clarifications in this connection. firstly, in her short term in office, mrs o'reilly has already succeeded in further intensifying cooperation with the european parliament and in particular with the committee on petitions, and above all in reducing the distance to the citizens. secondly, i look forward to working very well with her in the future, for example on the subject of children's rights. we have received many complaints in the committee on petitions, particularly on the issue of custody. mrs o'reilly has already assured us that she would like to deal with this subject from her own point of view and with her own responsibility. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the european social model, including the creation of a european social area. it is good to know that in mrs o'reilly we have a dedicated and highly competent ombudswoman at our side.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate you, mrs o'reilly, and also thank you, also on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, for a really good cooperation. they are a strong point and a strong pillar of credibility and a very important point of contact, not least for eu officials. they conducted half a dozen olaf cases in 2013. it's not all day yet. and you have a lot of influence. it's not true what they say here today, you have a lot of influence! the extent of your influence - and we are grateful for it - can be measured by the final decision of 2013, namely the ad hoc ethics committee and the chair. the commission has not moved for two or three years after parliament's criticism, but after your report it has moved. thank you very much for that. mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. it would be nice if there were not always any lengthy procedures, but independent reactions from the commission. i wish i could do that today.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what does the example of these two brothers really show? it shows that freedom of speech, freedom of the press, the legal system, democracy and equality are being trampled underfoot in russia. what does this mean for us? the first is, of course, the duty to draw attention to these abuses, and this resolution does that. secondly, we must also expose the whitewashers and the bigots of this regime. i think it is a shame that we have them in this parliament too. we have had to hear some of them on the far right and some on the far left. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, dialogue with russia is important, but it must always be accompanied by criticism of the situation there.
mrs. gomes, you have come to the rescue.
that was clearly not an objection to yesterday's protocol. the minutes of yesterday's sitting have been approved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mrs mogherini. from yesterday at noon until last night at 11 p.m. and from this morning onwards, it has been at the disposal of the house. it's not self-evident. (applause from the centre) secondly, mr president, i would ask you to discuss in the bureau whether we cannot have a more concentrated foreign policy debate, and not have perpetual one-off debates, but a clear one every two months, but not over several hours on each individual subject with a new debate. i believe that would serve this house, mrs mogherini, and also the external impact of this house. we should think about it.
thank you very much, mr. brok. we'll take that under advisement. i hate to correct the chairman of the foreign affairs committee, but the vice-president of the commission and high representative was here yesterday not until 11 o'clock but almost until midnight. in this respect, this point is indeed remarkable. the thanks of parliament go to you! (applause from the centre)
thank you very much, and indeed i myself have been wondering about this. the reason is that the political groups have decided on the dates and times for the submission of resolutions and amendments that made it impossible to vote on these resolutions that we vote today. let me say, however, that as the vice-president in charge of human rights, i am very satisfied that we will vote on the urgency resolutions now with a large presence. i think this underlines the role of this parliament as a defender of human rights. the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to see the following added to paragraph 14: calls on all parties in libya to guarantee the safety and freedom of christians and other religious minority groups who are facing increasing discrimination and persecution and find themselves in the crossfire; calls on the eu and its member states to ensure that future bilateral agreements include effective monitoring mechanisms for the protection of the human rights of religious minorities;
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i take note of your point and we will come back to discussing it. however, let me say that there was a very lively debate and it lasted until midnight, and whoever is in the chair, whether it is myself or a colleague – and we had this little exchange yesterday as well – has a responsibility to ensure that the debate does not last until 3 in the morning. there is some discretion that the chair can exercise in allowing blue cards or not. we will also always ensure, and that is correct in rule 162(6), that there is a diversity of views in both the blue cards and the catch-the-eye procedure, but we have taken note of your point and we will happily discuss it in the bureau.
mr president, i supported this report because the debate and the report clearly show that the institution of the ombudsman within the european institutions has a purpose, fulfils its purpose. twenty-three thousand applications, 80% of the recommendations heard by the ombudsman towards the european institutions, clearly show that it is not a formal institution, but a body that improves the performance of the european institutions towards citizens. what i would also like to say is that the debate also showed, and i therefore also supported the report, that in future european citizens should be better informed about the existence of the ombudsman, and in the future, in my view, this could lead to citizens turning to him even more and making even more use of this institution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too was very pleased to be able to agree with the ombudsman's report. if you like, the ombudsman is close to the people, very close to the citizen, together with the committee on petitions, and he embodies a little bit of good or bad conscience, depending on how you look at it. it should at least represent the good or bad conscience of our parliament and ultimately also point out its shortcomings. the demand for transparency, for example in the ttip, was also a great desire of the european people. i am always particularly pleased when these things are not only taken up by the ombudsman but also put into practice. and secondly, i was particularly pleased to see that the new media are also increasingly being used to meet this requirement. it was always a stepchild until 2013. the new ombudsman is making a very strong case for this, and that is a good thing. we look forward to working with her in the future.
in writing. since the overthrow of muammar al-gaddafi, violence against christians has been a recurring issue in libya. the latest news is that islamists have kidnapped 20 coptic christians there. i thank my colleagues for agreeing to my oral amendment in plenary to call on all parties in libya to guarantee the safety and freedom of christians and other religious minorities who are facing increasing persecution and discrimination. in my motion today, we also called on the eu and the member states to ensure that future bilateral agreements include reasonable mechanisms to protect the human rights of christians and religious minorities. that is why i voted in favour of this resolution. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. is it not remarkable that a so-called human rights politician from the greens refuses to give concrete support to people who are severely tortured? the inter-group outcry against this cold-hearted refusal should give the greens and the radical left something to think about.
mr president, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on ukraine. i am glad that a resolution has been passed in which the culprits of the conflict are clearly named, namely russia and the separatists. i am glad that we are saying this clearly here, although it may seem unnecessary to some, but there are still politicians, even in europe, who relativize the conflict and question who is the culprit and who is the victim. i am also glad that the resolution makes it clear that sanctions against russia must be maintained. if russia doesn't change its policy and its policy is not really peaceful, then there's no reason to tear down the sanctions at this point. and i'm also glad that the resolution makes it clear that ukraine needs our help. ukraine is our eastern partner, its stability is also the stability of europe, and we must help it economically, but also technically and logistically. ukraine needs the marshall plan and the european union can do a lot to help.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted in favour of the resolution and i must say that it is of course particularly painful when one considers the situation in ukraine. there is a country that wants to democratize, wants to fight corruption. there's a country that's in the middle of an economic crisis. there is a country which is de facto insolvent and still de facto in a civil war. i think it's good that we're committed to helping, that's right. secondly, i think it is particularly good that we also mention the responsibility of the neighbouring countries in a very simple and moving way. i think it's just too easy when russia keeps saying this is an internal ukrainian matter. that is not the facts, that is not the reality. i call on russia to live up to its responsibilities. an important part of ending the military conflicts would be for russia to finally live up to its responsibilities in the region.
in writing. i cannot agree with the decision adopted by parliament by a large majority. in particular, the resolution paves the way for ukraine to become a full member of the eu through association with the eu. the ukrainian people may vote in a referendum to join the eu. however, it is the responsibility of the member states to take in ukraine. in view of the internal organisational disorder of the eu, its lack of democratic feedback and the worrying shift of competences in the structure of the separation of powers from the parliaments to the governments, any enlargement of the eu is out of the question. the eu is also prohibited from having any closer relations with ukraine, which can only be seen as a step towards accession. but the resolution is also right on many points. i expressly share the call on ukraine to combat 'systematic corruption'. i cannot, however, approve the intended tightening of sanctions against russia, which only affect its own people. instead, we should pursue free trade with russia. because where the borders were crossed, armies won't.
in writing. there are many reasons why the european commission's work programme failed in the ep today. the very fact that the research budget was to be looted to finance the juncker investment programme makes it unacceptable in my view.
in writing. - i welcome the s&d resolution on the commission's 2015 work programme, as it addresses the strengthening and sustainability of european social policy. the european commission is called upon to focus its work on the growing inequalities between member states, discrimination in the labour market, child poverty and social dumping. the commission will also be using the new work programme as a basis for its work on labour law and safety, social security, fair wages and equal treatment. the creation of good, sustainable work is mentioned as the european union's top priority. the commission's previous draft also criticises the reduction in the amount of social policy.
in writing. the juncker commission again fails to get support for its work programme: juncker must resign. the european parliament has voted to approve the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the negotiations were suspended by the political groups in december 2014. on 13 january 2015, the negotiations on a joint motion for a resolution failed. the vote on the motion for a resolution was taken by a large majority. this means that the european commission's work programme will not be approved by parliament. mr juncker has failed. the majority which had previously invented the unconstitutional principle of 'leading candidates' and elected him to office now refuses to support his programme of work. in effect, she was expressing her distrust of him. in a democracy, the government resigns when it loses the support of parliament. if juncker thinks that he needs the democratic legitimacy of parliament for the work of the commission, he should take his hat off. but of course he does not, and so he shows that for him parliament is only one thing: a big, pretty backdrop for the theatre he plays. and the vast majority of the house is playing along. the european parliament has been asked to vote on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's powers to adopt and publish the european parliament's annual report on the european parliament's activities.
in writing. - i welcome the report on freedom of expression in turkey, as it points to the need for a state guarantee of pluralism. freedom of expression is a cornerstone of our democracy and must not be affected by attempts at censorship, as has happened. the turkish government, with the prospect of membership of the european union in mind, urgently needs to bring its legislation, which is being misused to prohibit freedom of assembly and to prosecute government critics, into line with european standards.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the rules of procedure do not provide for explanations of vote on declarations of urgency which are adopted under a separate procedure. i regret that, but it is the way it is, and it leaves me no choice in the matter.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.30 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 15 january 2015.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 15 january 2015 in accordance with rule 152 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: the epp group proposes that the debate on measures to combat terrorism be concluded by a resolution to be voted on at the february partsession.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. after the paris attacks, hundreds of thousands of french citizens demonstrated for democracy, for freedom, for the defense of freedom of expression and other values. the commission said yesterday in committee that we do not need actionism and it made it clear that there is a lack of implementation of existing instruments. we need a response to terrorism, and in particular to terrorism that is coming from within our own borders. the fighters are no longer coming from outside, they are coming from our own member states, they are our citizens. we therefore consider it completely wrong to write anything down in one fell swoop, but we insist that we carefully consider the whole package of possible measures and then position ourselves together. that is why we cannot have a resolution in february.
the green group requests that a debate on a statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative on the escalation of the conflict in ukraine and the attacks in mariupol be placed on the agenda for today, before the minute's speaking time. the council is therefore requested to extend the sitting until 9 p.m.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. i have asked for my group to request that, even without mrs mogherini, a debate on the developments in mariupol and eastern ukraine be held in this plenary session: that is, the session be extended by one hour. i am not doing this to re-discuss what we decided last week in strasbourg, but i have decided to put this motion because i believe it is important - especially after these terrible developments in eastern ukraine - to make clear that we are following all this and that we are taking this seriously and that the goal of our political work on ukraine and towards russia is to create peace and security, to re-create, and to end the misery and the dying in eastern ukraine. and i have decided again this afternoon to stick to the fact that it is right to discuss this today because i have been shocked by news from some member states, particularly from athens, from where the signal has come that in the future they want to take a different view of russia in this dispute. i believe that the european parliament must make it clear to the foreign ministers' council this week, before the extraordinary foreign ministers' meeting, that our position is valid and that we want a unified, united approach by the foreign ministers and the summit. and i have always been in favour of solidarity with greece, but i am also calling for solidarity from greece with the east of the european union and the continent.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on counter-terrorism measures (2015/2530 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. - mr president, honourable members, allow me to express my thanks to you for giving me the chance to discuss this issue with you today, just some minutes before i fly to riga for the informal justice and home affairs council. i will actually have to leave at 5 p.m. to catch my flight, and i would like to thank vice-president katainen for taking the floor if necessary, on behalf of the commission, to conclude this debate. the brutal terrorist attacks in paris were an attack on our fundamental rights. it has once again become clear that we face an increased and severe terrorist threat to europe. we have seen that terrorism knows no borders. terrorists’ travel, financing and access to weapons are, by definition, cross-border problems and they require a strong, united and coherent response from the entire union. this is not a time for competition among the eu institutions to act and be seen to be acting – with the danger of announcing badly-thought-through ideas which cannot then be delivered, leaving citizens even more disillusioned with the union. the member states, as you know, remain primarily responsible for security, but europe is part of the solution. there are a lot of relevant eu tools and measures already in place. the commission is determined to take an approach that is comprehensive, result-oriented and realistically deliverable, with the focus on maximising the added value of existing eu measures and, where necessary, proposing new and complementary ones. the commission can add value by looking at gaps in the effectiveness of existing operational law enforcement and cooperation tools. security is essential for a functioning democratic society. it is a prerequisite for our citizens’ wellbeing and a prerequisite for citizens’ ability to exercise their own rights. freedom and security are two sides of the same coin, and not conflicting goals. developing such a response requires that we all work together. this parliament is our strategic partner in developing an effective response that will respect our fundamental rights and values and be in line with the expectations of europe’s citizens. that is why i am here to present and discuss our latest thinking and lines of action, with the aim of fighting terrorism and radicalisation, in the context of the preparation of the european agenda on security announced in our work programme. all the eu institutions will be examining further action on counter-terrorism in the context of the upcoming european agenda on security. initial discussions on this are expected to take place at the informal justice and home affairs council in riga and at the meeting of the european council on 12 february. a new agenda for european security for the years 2015-2020 will be presented in the coming months, around may. this agenda should aim to ensure the highest level of protection for the fundamental rights of our citizens and those residing in or staying in or visiting the european union. upholding our democratic values and ensuring security are not only compatible: they are mutually reinforcing. it seems clear that there is a need to maximise the value of existing instruments and to deliver on pending proposals first, before developing further measures. furthermore, we must make sure that the measures in place allow us to tackle the problems we face effectively. to maximise the value of existing eu measures we also need to make the best use of the schengen information system, under existing eu law, for checks on travel documents and on persons at the union’s external borders and to assess any emerging need for improvement. the commission is assisting and will further assist member states in identifying common risk criteria for checks on persons. europol, in particular, will play an important role in the implementation of the future agenda. we need to make sure that it receives all the requisite information from all member states so that it can deliver its added value in terms of intelligence and threat assessments. the same goes for eurojust. as long ago as 2005 it was decided that the member states should provide counter-terrorism information to both agencies. on cybersecurity and the protection of critical infrastructures, we need to reassess whether additional action is needed. the boston marathon bombing highlighted the vulnerability of public events. we will work to protect such soft targets, and also critical infrastructure, more effectively. a number of initiatives and trials are ongoing, which will feed into our reflections for future proposals. with regard to delivering on pending proposals, that is where i believe this house can add value in responding to calls from citizens. one example is the eu passenger name record (pnr) directive. an eu pnr directive is necessary in order to enhance substantially the security of everyone living in europe. we need to make sure that our law enforcement authorities have access to the data necessary for the prevention of terrorist acts and serious transnational crimes. no decision has been made, except that the commission is committed to working with the co-legislators to achieve a legal instrument which is both effective and fully in line with fundamental rights. i am looking forward to seeing this, and i intend to help the european parliament and the council in moving forward quickly on this issue. i have read – we have all read – articles about what the position of the commission might be. let me be clear: the commission has not come forward with a modified proposal or other initiative today. that was never planned. there has not even been a college of commissioners discussion since the orientation debate on the eu security agenda. everything that has been published allegedly reflecting a commission official position or decision is therefore wrong. with regard to the data retention reform, and in particular the law enforcement directive, i call on the co-legislators to work together towards quick adoption. this will be essential in providing a clear and predictable framework for the processing of personal data in member states and the exchange of such data between law enforcement authorities. furthermore, we need to optimise the sharing of information between law enforcement authorities. to that end, the adoption of the europol and eurojust legal frameworks and the pending proposal to improve cross-border law enforcement training will be crucial, but progress can already be achieved without waiting for this. we will very shortly organise a joint meeting with europol and eurojust to see how information sharing can be improved under the current legal framework. the commission is seizing the opportunity, during the preparatory work before adoption of the agenda, to consider whether further measures are needed to address the evolving threat, including whether the existing eu legal framework needs reinforcement. we had our first discussion with my fellow commissioners just last week. it is clear that the fight against terrorism will be a major focus of this agenda. let me now put forward some preliminary reflections on the objectives that the european agenda on security should address, including how to continue to offer member states comprehensive support in preventing and addressing radicalisation and other forms of extremism. the fight against arms trafficking is another building block. we need to review the implementation of the existing legislation and ensure a greater exchange of information both between member states and with europol, eurojust and interpol. at the same time, the fight against organised crime and the financing of terrorism needs to be stepped up. we must deprive terrorists of their sources of finance. the link with organised crime is striking. ensuring the effective implementation of the fourth anti-money-laundering directive and the funds transfer regulation agreed upon in december 2014 is crucial. the existing tools for the confiscation of criminal assets must be used. we must ensure the speedy execution of all confiscation orders. we also need to look carefully at reassessing the need for, and the added value of, possible eu solutions for data retention, respecting the principles set out by the court of justice last year. the commission is monitoring and evaluating the situation in each member state before discussing the way ahead with the co-legislators. we need to find sound solutions for the exchange of passenger record data with those third countries that are key to our security interests and to make sure that they are fully consistent with the solutions to be reached for eu pnr. full implementation by member states of existing legislative instruments on information exchange is therefore key. however, we also need to consider how to strengthen europol’s intelligence analysis capabilities in relation to terrorism and radicalisation-related threats. we need to expand the use of existing eu policy-cycle tools to address serious and organised-crime-related threats as well as threats related to terrorism and radicalisation. on the external front, the eu is stepping up its assistance to neighbouring countries and regions. the particular focus is on law enforcement cooperation, information exchange, extending criminal law tools and anti-radicalisation efforts. delivering rapidly and effectively on our response requires political will and the setting of clear priorities. the commission has voiced its determination to take this up as a matter of priority. working hand in hand with parliament on developing a coherent response will be essential in defining and developing action to keep europe both secure and open.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the paris attacks, as well as the attacks that we have seen before, in brussels, london, madrid, in various cities in the european union and also outside the european union, present us with enormous challenges. my wish to this european parliament would be - and it would have been the same in the previous vote - that we had reached a consensus that we must continue to discuss the issue of terrorism, that we must discuss it publicly and show a sense of community, as governments that are socialist, conservative and green ministers of the interior do. i would like to see a little more unity in this parliament, to show the public what we want and how we are fighting. that is why i would also like us to have a very open and deeply factual discussion about the tools that our law enforcement agencies need to fight the terrorists. this includes passenger data, this may include data retention, this may include topics that are controversial here, but also the discussion about prevention measures or about what forms of de-radicalization we can pursue, what we can do in our prisons. we must talk to third countries. i would ask all my colleagues to work together and not to show that we are a house that is once again quarrelling over trifles.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. yesterday, on my way home, i ran into police cars and i don't know how many heavily armed soldiers. i wondered, does this make us safer? are we really preventing future attacks, attacks like in paris and elsewhere, with increased border controls or a five-year retention of passenger data? do you really think that's going to make us safer? we are chasing a phantom again, we are chasing a fiction that really does not do us any good! we must fight terrorism where it is born. it is being developed in countries like iraq, for example. why would you do that? because the sunni population has been humiliated and there is no reconciliation taking place. terrorism is being promoted by saudi arabia, whose kings have been given the hand of the west, despite the fact that they are funding terrorists worldwide. the first demand must be: arms exports to such regions are not to be tolerated! looking at europe, terrorism always arises where inclusion fails, and it fails in every member state. for example, in germany, where they watch young people running towards jihadists. we must understand that fire cannot be put out by fire. i can't do that. we need an honest debate about anti-islamism, anti-semitism, xenophobia, exclusion in the midst of our society. instead of more and more restrictions, we need exit projects, genuine dialogue and a rethinking of society in the eu so that people's needs can once again play a role in our entire political life.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, yes, we need to strengthen security. i agree with all those who say we need to deliver whatever is necessary and proportionate to get a higher level of security. but what is proposed now, the proposed blanket mass surveillance of citizens, is exactly the opposite of that. it does not deliver that. instead, you are delivering a symbolic measure at the cost of effective security and the civil liberties of eu citizens. even before the paris attacks it was possible to know who was on which plane. we already know that. we have advance passenger information: it is there, we can access it and we know who is on which plane. in the case of known suspects, we can follow them. so why do we not focus on the suspects? why do we not focus on the risk? that is what you need to do in your directive, mr avramopoulos, because that would be a focused approach on security. we need to strengthen the capacity of police officers and security personnel – locally, regionally and at european level – to analyse this information. they need to be able to join the dots. that is exactly what has been missing in the past and what has led to the insecure situation we have today. but the problem is that we spend all our money on blanket surveillance measures like data retention and other issues. it is proposed to invest hundreds of millions of euros in the blanket retention of personal name records. this money is very much needed by the police everywhere in europe, and needed for the coordination of european security and police authorities. europol has just a small amount of money for the setting up of joint investigation teams. we need to invest the money there. that is what we need. so, mr avramopoulos, i am not convinced by your proposals, and i am not the only one. the court of justice has said very clearly that it is not legal and not in line with the fundamental right of data protection to put everybody under surveillance. you have to choose where you are shooting. you have to choose who you are going after. you have to create some determining criteria to indicate where there is risk or suspicion. do not put everybody under surveillance because that would be no different to what china or bahrain does.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission said yesterday in the committee on the internal affairs that after the paris attacks we need action, not actionism. that's right! the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to deal with this situation. and that is why the plethora of proposals currently being put forward is worrying: internet surveillance, collection of passenger data, tightening of schengen rules, prevention of encrypted communications, perhaps even a new data retention system and more. i would remind the commission and the council that the european court of justice, in its judgment on the repeal of the retention directive, has established a fundamental rights check for all surveillance measures. this means that they all have to meet the broad criteria set by the european court of justice. in the case of passenger data, this means not only checking retention periods, access rights or effective controls, but also limiting the use of data to the occasion. do we have a problem getting access to the data? it is not just the paris attacks that have been known to the national authorities. but member states are making far too little use of the instruments available, and in particular there is clearly far too little exchange of information. we therefore need a comprehensive evaluation of existing measures before we propose new instruments, and we should not forget that this will not eliminate the root causes of terrorism in our midst - such as discrimination and exclusion of young people. the conclusion: instead of eroding civil rights, we must defend the rule of law, safeguard freedom and fundamental rights right now. that is what we owe to our citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we're discussing counterterrorism today, and we need to answer a question: how much freedom are we willing to give up for more security? in all encroachments on freedom, the guarantee is always less freedom, never more security. a free society will always remain vulnerable. maybe you can make a totalitarian society totally safe, but a free society? we are discussing or have already introduced: biometric passports, video surveillance, telephone surveillance, data retention, restrictions on cash movements, abolition of banking secrecy, prohibition of encryption of communications. the citizen is already glass today, and if you ask me, a lot of glass. if i have to choose between freedom and security, i choose freedom.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe needs a new anti-terrorism strategy and an improved internal security strategy, because the current situation cannot be satisfactory in the face of these threats, and the commission and you, mr arramopoulos, are on the right track. we should also show the victims and survivors and our citizens that we are able to respond to this and we should respond decisively, otherwise we have already lost. some of us - and this is what really excites me in this debate - simply do not want to acknowledge certain realities. our freedoms are reason enough for the terrorists to kill us. and if you'd like to see them all on the tombstones. but your data was safe, so that doesn't reassure anyone! of course, we need a balance between security and freedom here in this area. but you also need the political will to do that, and maybe you should also take note of the fact that experts have been telling us for the last four years that you can get special insights from the passenger data that you can't get from any other data. the rapporteur has made enormous efforts in these years and has met you, and perhaps we should also start taking political responsibility. when we talk about actionism here, i would be glad if you would take action instead of always being against everything. we have been puzzling over this for four years and better coordination is just one of the points. we had suggested in the nsa report from march last year that intelligence should be coordinated accordingly. it was rejected by you! maybe now we can take it a step further. thank you, thank you.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, honourable members, thank you for inviting the council to participate in this very important debate on the eu fund for strategic investments. this issue has been a priority for all three eu institutions, which in itself is a very good starting point for further discussions. i am grateful for this opportunity to share my views on it. the parliament has been instrumental in bringing the issue of investment to the forefront of the european agenda. hence, i am particularly pleased to stand here today as we start working on the first concrete deliverable of the investment plan. the eu fund for strategic investments is a top priority for the latvian presidency and for the council. it is essential that we strengthen economic growth and reduce unemployment in the eu. the investment package is designed to deliver on this dual goal, and it is of the utmost importance that the co-legislators work closely together and as quickly as possible. i find it useful to recall that president juncker and the european council have set an ambitious deadline. we count on parliament’s support in achieving it. the current investment situation requires resolute and swift action. we want to see the first projects in place this year. the council has already started examining the proposal in an ad hoc working party which is meeting very frequently. two meetings took place last week and the next one is scheduled for tomorrow. we aim to produce a general approach by march to allow sufficient time to agree with parliament well before the summer deadline. the ecofin council will keep a close eye on progress with this proposal, which will feature prominently on our agenda. in fact, the first intensive exchange of views on the proposal at ministerial level took place yesterday. i am confident that parliament is willing to match our ambitions and i look forward to constructive cooperation. this is going to test our mutual commitment to boost europe’s economic recovery. while the importance of the eu fund for strategic investments cannot be overestimated, it is only one part of the commission’s investment plan – the so-called liquidity pillar, designed to mobilise finance for investment. the second pillar of the commission’s plan, the project pipeline and the setting up of a european investment advisory hub, is also part of the current legislative proposal. by helping to identify well structured, reliable and viable projects, we ensure that the private sector participates and that the money is channelled to the real economy. so we must pay due attention to these measures accompanying the setting-up of the fund, as they will be key to the successful delivery of strategic projects across europe. however, it is perhaps the third pillar – improving the investment environment – that will ultimately be the most important in terms of fostering private investments. this is a much broader issue that needs to be tackled at many different levels. from an eu perspective, it is a question of completing the single market. a number of measures have already been announced by the commission, for instance under the banner of the capital market union. the council stands ready to work together with parliament and the commission on all initiatives designed to enhance the single market and to improve the eu’s competitiveness. at the same time, action is also needed at national level to remove any barriers to investments and unlock the growth potential throughout the eu. we therefore look forward to the commission’s proposals and initiatives in these areas. the investment plan is fully in line with the priorities of the latvian presidency in the field of economic policy and competitiveness. as you know, the plan is not designed to solve every single problem in the euro area or the european union – from macroeconomic shocks to deflation, energy security and local authorities’ debt problems – but it is a step in the right direction and, most importantly, it has been designed in the most flexible way so that it can grow. structural reforms, fiscal responsibility and investment are the three keys to restoring growth and creating jobs. in other words, investment is only one ingredient in the mix. we should not forget the others: structural reforms and fiscal prudence. to tackle the challenges ahead, we – parliament, the council and the commission – must work together quickly and efficiently to ensure that the legislative package delivers the needed boost in the economy.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, it is always a pleasure to be in the european parliament to talk about big issues, as we are doing today. i would also like to thank the latvian presidency for the excellent job it is doing in putting the investment plan very high on the agenda. less than two months after announcing its ambitious strategy to boost jobs and growth, the commission has presented a draft law to set up the european fund for strategic investments (efsi). we are delivering quite fast. this fund goes to the heart of the eu investment offensive: the drive to get funds flowing back into the parts of our economy where they are needed most and to stimulate job creation. we have also proposed creating a transparent pipeline for projects and setting up a european investment advisory hub to make sure public and private promoters get the technical assistance they need to develop viable projects that can benefit from this funding. in line with the objectives of our plan, each of these measures will remove uncertainty in order to mobilise much-needed private investment. for member states we are providing certainty by clarifying how the new entity will be governed, how member states’ contributions will be treated under the stability and growth pact (sgp) and how projects can best be developed to have a tangible impact on growth and jobs. for private entities we are providing certainty with a legal text explaining the legal form and governance of the european fund for strategic investments, with enhanced technical assistance, and by establishing transparency in relation to the project pipeline. we are moving fast and i am counting on you for very strong political support so that we can have the european fund for strategic investments up and running in the first half of this year. the timetable is very ambitious. council negotiations kicked off on 19 january 2015 in an ad hoc working group established for the investment plan for europe. it is important that work in parliament should start as soon as possible too. we count on the co-legislators to agree on the text by june so that the efsi can be operational by mid-2015. since we are moving very fast it is important to take the time to explain very clearly what we are doing. i want to look in particular at sgp treatment, governance and some other details. regarding sgp treatment, the commission will treat favourably member states’ contributions to efsi investment under the sgp. the efsi will be open to contributions from member states directly or through national promotional banks. member states can also contribute at the level of different projects. contributions in the form of capital and guarantees to the efsi will not be counted when assessing the fiscal adjustment. co-financing with efsi projects or investment platforms will be eligible under the revamped investment clause. regarding governance, we foresee a two-tier governance structure. this governance structure has been specifically designed to allow the fund to remove more uncertainty for investors taking on project tranches that present a higher risk than those covered by normal eib instruments. this is a key point because, to add value, the efsi must be able to support projects with a higher risk profile in order to get investment flowing in the countries and sectors of our economy where it is needed most. in practice, a steering board will define the efsi investment guidelines. these guidelines will set out the risk profile of the fund and the criteria for the selection of projects. the steering board will consist of representatives from the efsi partners, i.e. the commission and the eib, and, in the future, any third-party entity that might participate in the efsi capital, subject to the agreement of its partners. as long as the only contributors to the efsi are the european union and the eib, all decisions in the steering board shall be taken by consensus. an investment committee made up of six independent experts will take the decisions on project selection. projects will be selected on the basis of merit and the investment guidelines laid down by the steering committee. investors tell us that this independent selection of projects based on merit is critical if we want private sector financing to come in. the investment guidelines defining the criteria for project selection will be adopted by the efsi steering board once the efsi regulation has been adopted, but the basic criteria are already clear now. projects under this initiative will need firstly to be economically viable with the support of the initiative, secondly to be sufficiently mature to be appraised on a global or local basis, and thirdly to be of european added value and/or consistent with eu policy priorities such as the europe 2020 strategy for smart, inclusive and sustainable growth, the 2030 climate and energy package and other long-term eu strategic priorities. the proposal states that the efsi should target projects with a higher risk-return profile than existing eib and union instruments in order to ensure additionality with existing operations. the efsi should be used only where financing is not available from other sources on reasonable terms. the efsi will be fully accountable to parliament. the monitoring is structured around two key principles of which the first is reporting. the eib will report semi-annually to the commission and annually to parliament and the council on eib financing and investment operations under the regulation. the reports will be made public. the commission will also report to parliament on the application of the regulation. on accountability, parliament will have the right to organise, at any time, hearings with the managing director of the efsi on the performance of the fund. the managing director will also have a legal obligation to reply swiftly, orally or in writing, to questions from parliament. in addition, parliament can request reporting by the commission. the proposal presented today must be complemented by a series of measures to remove barriers to investment and to create a true single market. to me this is the most important part of the investment plan. it is the way to change europe structurally and permanently in the right direction and to open up new investment opportunities. on this, a set of actions is outlined in the commission’s 2015 work programme. the commission will come forward with further proposals on the energy union, the digital single market, the capital market union and an internal market strategy for goods and services in the course of this year. we look forward to working with you on this matter. finally, i want to signal that, while there are a lot of technical details in the plans presented today – and we rightly need to discuss those and get them right – it is important never to lose sight of the big picture and of what it is all for. the crisis of confidence is holding back the investment flows that are the lifeblood of the european economy. taken as a whole, these new measures should restore investor confidence and get investment flowing into the regions and sectors of our economy where job creation is needed most. the urgency is very real at political level because the needs are very great on the ground. i look forward to working hand in hand with this house so that we adopt these proposals as soon as possible and have a meaningful impact on europe’s investment.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. thank you for the presentation of jyrki katainen. the epp group welcomes the proposal from the european commission for the growth pact, for the investment package at european level. i also believe that the framework is right: no debt-financed investments, but money raised on the private market to create jobs in europe. this is the right way to go. so thank you for the quick work and also for the good suggestions. my colleagues will go into the details from the epp's point of view later. i would like to link this proposal to a second development which is characterising the economic situation in the european union and which will also be characterising the next political debates, namely what we saw on sunday with the greek elections. i would first like to point out that in our view the new start of europe initiated by the new greek prime minister will certainly not be achieved by him, but by proposals such as those presented today by jyrki katainen, namely the investment package. the ilo, the international labour organization, has today published figures that show that this investment fund can create over 2.1 million new jobs in the european union. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. i have addressed greece because i believe that much of what we want to do, for investment, for economic power in europe, is in danger from this vote and from the formation of the government last sunday. if, for example, the new greek prime minister tsipras now announces that he wants a bailout, that is, that debts should not be repaid, then i ask you: how are we to win private investors to join the fund, if at the same time the politicians in europe say: we are not paying back our debts? what does this have to do with solidarity? what has solidarity to do with a bailout, i.e. a debt reduction in greece, where countries like cyprus would have to pay 100 million euros, countries like italy would have to pay 10 billion euros, countries like spain would have to pay 6.6 billion euros and ireland would have to pay 347 million euros? a bailout means that all other european countries would have to pay for greece's debts. is it really solidarity if spain, italy and cyprus are liable for greek debts? does that lead to stability? i do not think that this will lead to stability; i think it will lead to instability in europe. the election promises that are being made, with over 11 billion euros of new spending in greece, are not leading investors to have confidence in this country. we have the hope and even the request that the successes - that greece today has a balanced budget, that greece today has growth, also a difficult situation, but growth has - that these successes are not now being risked. i don't want to talk about the fact that radical left forces in the government are meeting with right-wing forces, that they are doing business with right-wing populists. i would also like to remind our social democratic friends that not a single woman has been appointed as a minister in the new government. the new government is all men. what this has to do with gender balance is something that surprises me very much. i am raising this in this discussion of the investment fund because such political developments are the far greater danger to the question of whether we will get economic development. if you look at developments in europe today, you will see that we have 3.6% growth in ireland, 2.6% in latvia, we have created one million new jobs in spain last year. in all the countries where we have epp governments, where we have good governance and where we are investing in the future, we have growth and positive development prospects. we in the epp group will stick to this line. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr weber, you are of course welcoming the 315 billion investment package, which i do not find very surprising! maybe two things: they say it's not a debt-financed investment. and i think that's amazing, because that's exactly what it is: we go in with public funds, we pump it up to 60 billion through loans, and that's how we motivate private investment. this is very debt-financed. and secondly, if it is true that your dream number of two million new jobs is created by 315 billion, why don't we double or triple it, then we have solved unemployment!
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. it is wonderful that the colleague can describe the problems. it would be good if the populists in this house could also contribute to solutions. the proposal on the table is one which will not increase the level of debt in europe. we will finance these investments from the regular budget and we will invite private investors. this is the best way for anyone who thinks economically to attract private investors to invest in the european economy. that's why jyrki katainen's proposal is the right one.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr weber has just said that greece has experienced the solidarity of the eurozone. do you agree that the greek people have not benefited from this solidarity, that the greek people have suffered from the consequences of the euro rescue policy, that unemployment has risen to alarmingly high levels, youth unemployment has risen, and that the solidarity of the eurozone has been paid for by the creditors alone, and in particular by the banks and financial institutions?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, you have said that you want billions of dollars of public investment to be spent on programmes of this size every year, but you do not say how you want to finance this, nor do you say that, for example, quantitative easing in the uk or the us is linked to structural reforms. how do you explain that a liberal economic policy in these countries is supported by monetary policy, but you are calling for programmes that cannot be financed?
i have to say, madam president, the european union has a central philosophy: it responds to societal and economic challenges with visionary plans and financial funds. i would remind you of the lisbon strategy: in 2000, the union set itself a new strategic objective: to become the most competitive and dynamic economic area in the world. the euro should speed up this process. today we are faced with a strategic pile of rubble. the eurozone is not internationally competitive. there is no growth, but mass unemployment. investment activity is slowing. what is the commission doing? it is a new plan: a new european fund for strategic investments. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. anyone who has worked with projections knows that when an assumption changes, the calculations are no longer correct. i remember a quote by bert brecht that everyone needs to hear: "yes, just make a plan, just be a great light". and make a second plan. they both don't.
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, our esteemed colleague kamall no longer has the pleasure of participating in our lively debate. but i'd like to call out to him, if he's quoting bob dylan, please tell him to pick the right song parts. my suggestion would be, the times they are a-changin'. that's the motto of the day. i think we can find some common ground here. it is obvious that there is no longer any significant force in this house, that there is no significant force in political europe that is not in agreement, that we have a huge investment gap and that we urgently need to do something about it in order to bring back growth and promote employment. that's something, we agree on that! now, technically, the question is how do we do that? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. thank god for the co-decision, that's what we're here for. first question: public-private partnerships have many advantages, you take the risk away from the private ones, and if it works, you can mobilize more capital. but how do we get the money, if it works, into the right fields, into the fields where the most future social value is created? how are we going to do that? so this question leads to two others: who is in charge, who is in charge of the governance of this new instrument? if the european parliament gives money, if we have ownership, then we will not pass on the responsibility to the wardrobe. we will continue to take responsibility for the form we have to speak in co-decision. secondly, it must be possible to develop the great variety of projects which are now on the verge of being profitable. we need a good policy mix of instruments to do that, and we need to refine this. we are at your disposal. we shall find ways of doing this in the codecision procedure. i'm confident about this.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. the juncker package raises a lot of unanswered questions, and it would be nice if there were some answers, commissioner. the european parliament can give 8 billion euros and then we're out. budgetary, we're setting up a trust fund, pooled money. this means that there is no accountability; we'll never have a complete picture of what's really going on, of the risks, of what that money is actually doing. but one thing is clear: we have got rid of these eight billion euros from the research sector. that's why i say that hurry is actually harmful. there are questions, for example, about how the experience gained in the field of financial instruments has been taken into account. as budget controller, i can tell you that so far in the period 2007-2013 only 40 per cent of the funds for financial instruments have actually reached the final beneficiary who is supposed to use them. only forty percent! i wonder how we can actually believe that the world is changing now because of this package. i have more questions than answers. i also want to say to you: is it enough to give money? greece has the lowest depletion of resources in rural areas. there are regions which are underfunded, there are regions which cannot manage projects at all, so technical assistance is at least as much in demand, and the question already raised: what do we offer to the investors is an important question. the dax in germany has reached + 59 percent in the last 3 years. i don't want us to make investments that cost users dearly.
i have to say, madam president, mr katainen, we stand by the basic statement of manfred weber that we want to support this. this is the right project, but it's still a long way to the right construction. so two questions: what is the added value of the efsi compared to the financial instruments which already exist, such as inofin (innovative financing of social housing refurbishment in enlarged europe), horizon 2020 and the financial instruments under cosme (the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises)? are they meant to complement each other? how can we create added value rather than merely relabelling or redirecting funds? the second question is: what kind of risk profile will the efsi be looking for when funding projects? or, to put it differently, how can a high leverage effect be ensured? that is important. we have existing instruments already in place. my last comment concerns the need to get it right in terms of projects. we would have liked a little more ambition, rather than taking support away from investment in research. there should be a certain burden sharing. that would have been the easiest way because you would not have to confront the member states: it is easy to take that out of european money.
vice-president of the commission. - madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for this lively debate and thank you for your ideas. i just want to underline the basic nature of the investment plan. first of all i want to recall what i have said before. this investment plan alone will not change everything. we need structural reforms, we need confidence-building fiscal policy, we need the right monetary policy and then we need europe-wide action in order to encourage the private sector in particular to invest in europe. that is why the investment plan is not a one-off stimulus measure. instead, it is a structural european answer which has three angles. the first one is the risk fund, in order to encourage the private sector to invest in riskier countries, riskier regions, riskier projects, and especially in small and medium-sized companies. the second angle is a transparent project pipeline for which we would like to collect economically viable, reliable, well-structured projects so that private money can easily find projects from various parts of europe. this has been wished for by institutional investors and private sector investors. they say that our everyday job is to invest in europe, but unfortunately there are not enough viable and reliable well-structured projects. that is why they asked us to build a transparent project pipeline and we are going to do it. we want to help not only the private sector but also the public sector to structure those projects. we are enhancing technical assistance in order to make sure that the whole of europe, all parts of europe, can benefit from new opportunities. the third part, which in my mind is the most important part of the plan, is the single market part because it is a european structural reform which can create new markets, new opportunities for small but also for bigger companies in europe, and there the sky is the limit for new job creation. that is why we all need to put our focus on the single market, and not to forget it – even though money is always more attractive – but the single market part is more powerful. we can get much more out of it than the other parts of the plan can bring. for those of us who are interested in helping smes and are interested in increased public resources for sme lending, i would encourage you to look at what the spanish government has done. it is a very good example to all of us. i would encourage every country to do the same. it is using structural funds as a financial instrument, providing more liquidity, more loans, to smes. this is the best way to use structural funds if you want to provide more loans to small and medium-sized enterprises. this is an untouched opportunity in most of our member states. i wish you could help the commission to pass this message to your own respective member states. we should not forget that the original eib will also continue to work. it will lend eur 60 to 70 billion a year whereas the new risk fund, which is concentrating on riskier projects and sme lending to a greater extent than the eib, will provide some eur 60 billion liquidity without any member state contributions, but in three years’ time. the reason why the new fund is smaller is that it is focusing on high-risk projects and nobody knows how much demand there is for this kind of money. i want us to work closely with each other. when we are taking money out of the european budget it means that we are using the same amount or a bigger amount of money but in a different way. for instance i expect research will receive more when we use the leverage effect of the new fund. we have to work very closely with each other; we have to work very fast together in order to open new opportunities for our companies and for our citizens to get jobs, because job creation and new jobs is the only reason why we have established the new fund and new investment plan.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, honourable members, thank you for this debate which demonstrates the importance we attach to kick-starting investment in europe after years of stagnation. it bears witness to the common determination of all three eu institutions to deliver promptly to european citizens on the ambitious investment plan, a plan that should promote sustainable growth and job creation. during this debate i took note of five blocks of questions on themes we discussed today. first of all we touched upon so-called red tape and the role of structural reforms, then we came to questions on sources of finance for investment and jobs in member states, and to relations between public and private investment. then, and very importantly, we heard the call for attention to be paid to the question of jobs: stimulating new jobs and fighting unemployment. of course we talked about investments for the benefit not of private investors, but for our citizens’ jobs and the welfare. there were also questions about the use of the finance and the role of smart investments and sustainable projects and – importantly – horizontal questions about democratic legitimacy, the role of parliament and the responsibility of member states. so, coming to these five blocks of questions, i would like to recognise, in particular, the importance of what mr weber, ms rodrigues and mr kamall said. it is for this reason that we look forward to the commission’s proposal and to initiatives under the third pillar of the investment plan. as i mentioned in my opening remarks, we believe that the third pillar may ultimately be the most important in terms of fostering private investment. we believe that, by proposing the three-pillar approach, the commission has made the right choice because raising the level of investments is a rewarding exercise in the long term but a very complex one in the short term. the presidency is ready to act not only on the proposal to establish the fund but also in the area of removing barriers and bottlenecks in the internal market, most notably in the fields of energy union, the digital economy and, indeed, the capital markets union. a lot can also be done at national level. with regard to the possible contributions of member states to the fund, the details will need to be worked out in the legislative proposal, which we have just started to examine, but it is essential to ensure that, at whatever level member states intervene, new investments can be mobilised. it is true that member states or their national promotional banks will be able to contribute to the fund. but let me stress that this is just one of the ways in which member states can support investment with the efsi. they will also be able to contribute directly at project level or throughout investment platforms. as it stands, the commission and the european investment bank have estimated that the level of funding envisaged will have to mobilise up to eur 315 billion of new investments. most of this will come from the private sector, where there is plenty of liquidity. this is real money and it needs to be used as soon as possible. that is without any additional contributions from member states: when the additional contributions come, the amount will increase. when we talk about the added value of the fund, i would stress that the role of the new fund is to mobilise new investment, and additionality is a very important criterion which will ensure that the fund ‘crowds in’, rather than crowding out, private investment. we have only just started our examination of the proposal and, like the parliament, we in the council need some time to come to a position. however, it is already clear that the additionality of this instrument will be essential. the goal will be to support projects which are not currently being funded, for example because they are perceived as too risky. the fund should bear some of the risk, so as to make the projects more attractive to private investors. with regard to your comment, mr bullmann, you have raised a number of very valid points to which we will have to find answers during our internal and interinstitutional discussions. we agree that the money should come to where it is most needed, and we will have to work towards ensuring more certainty in the criteria. of course the fund needs to address unemployment, inequality and growing poverty. that is the main goal. it is clear that an ambitious investment plan will help support demand in the short term and improve europe’s growth potential in the longer term. it is an essential condition that it should underpin higher levels of employment. a significant increase in investment activity will bring a higher level of employment to the eu as a whole. the commission proposal also envisages stepping up support for sme financing through the european investment fund. smes make a vital contribution to employment in europe, and this part of the plan should not be underestimated as it will provide a significant boost to sme activity throughout the eu. with regard to the content of the debate in the council – we had a question on that – i would draw your attention to the fact that yesterday’s ecofin debate was public. however, since interest has been shown, i will provide a short insight into yesterday’s discussion. the ministers showed their resolve to make this plan a success. they agreed on the necessity of ensuring that those projects which deliver the most significant contribution will succeed – those projects which create jobs and which enhance knowledge and technology transfer throughout the eu, be it in the developed regions or those which are still catching up. the principle of additionality was emphasised as one of the key criteria, and there are many questions that need to be clarified in order to get this right. of course discussions will continue and the council will work very hard and will deliver the best possible results. with regard to the role of the european parliament, we very much look forward to starting negotiations with parliament on the proposal to establish the fund, with a view to reaching an agreement as soon as possible in order to enable the flow of real money to our economies. but, in order for the private money to flow, some key principles are important, such as depoliticising the decision-making process at fund level and ensuring full independence in the selection of projects. in the council we are also under heavy time constraints in examining the proposal. however, as the presidency, we believe we can deliver on the ambitious deadline set by the european council without compromising on the quality of the legislation. as long as we work constructively together, we can achieve this ambitious goal. citizens expect us to deliver promptly. there is no time to spare when it comes to boosting investment in europe. let us work together constructively to make sure that the investment plan works. let us put the economic crisis behind us. let us jointly put in place the conditions for creating jobs and improving the welfare of european citizens. let us make this work – honestly.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. the creation of the european fund for strategic investments is the next important step in the investment plan of commission president jean-claude juncker. i am very pleased that this fund has been set up within three months. i would like to draw attention to the fact that investments are not an end in themselves and should not be made purely out of the desire to make investments. we must not lose sight of our common objective of creating good jobs. this is what mr juncker and mr katainen have also announced with their 'triple social a'. we'll measure them by that promise. confidence in europe has been shaken by the crisis and the resulting high unemployment rate of 9.7%. this is what anti-democratic movements across europe are capitalizing on, offering seemingly simple solutions in times of complex problems. we must show people that europe is more than competitiveness at any price. jobs must not be created for the purpose of lowering unemployment rates in the short term, but must be under the guise of sustainability. we need no more atypical employment relationships, but jobs with fair pay and a guarantee of longterm employment.
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the council and the commission on the roadmap for a new paris agreement on climate change (2015/2521 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. first, a heartfelt word of thanks to you. we had very good contact with the commission in lima and were quite close to the issues. i think the main success of lima was about eight or ten days before the conference, when the americans and the chinese - mr president, you were not there - said: 'yes, we are in.' we do not like this un concept, but we will tell you today what exact percentages we want to achieve in what year. and, my dear colleague, we will then be going from 14 per cent to 51 per cent of the reduction in the co2 load on this planet, and that is a very welcome target. we have a 2030 target, which is quite ambitious, i do not want to deny that, and - this is probably very important for the polish colleague - we have to find a reasonable way to get there. basically, the moment of truth has arrived today. in two months' time, the member states of the union and all the countries of the world - 192 in number - will have to set their actual reduction targets. and then there is an international arrangement, and we will see whether we reach the 2 percent or not. we'll have to adjust if we have to. but i'm glad that finally the americans and the chinese are here, which has been our goal and one that i've personally pursued for a long time. they're not getting out of it, and that's why i think that in the end, despite all the trouble, we're where we want to be. and all those who criticize here, mr. president... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i'm not going to tell you. i have to say, i'm glad that now the european external action service has woken up to the fact that we're developing a kind of climate diplomacy on the way to paris. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the new commission has brought the idea of an energy union into play. i think it should be a climate and energy union, because that's what a shoe is. we must also organise this internationally, and that is why we are very keen to reach an international agreement and thus ensure that the 520 million europeans have a sustainable and secure energy supply, but also that we push the issue of jobs, namely green energy, because it is precisely in this area that jobs are to be created, and there is a huge potential. so we should take advantage of this tailwind, but also do our homework at the end of the day. because nobody in paris is going to take us down if we can't get the emissions trading system up and running. that is why we must move towards the council, towards the commission and also here in the house: the msr, the market stability reserve, that has to come, we have to agree on that. we cannot let this go on as in the committee on industry, where everything is being pushed to the wall, but where colleagues in the committee on the environment will have to ensure that we reach a responsible compromise at the end of the day, so that we do not have to be ashamed in paris, but can show that we have done the preliminary work in this direction. we should use the next few months to do that!
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken in this debate. many of them concentrated on the need for climate finance. climate finance will be a key part of our work in 2015 because public finance will determine in part our credibility in the negotiations. the european union already has a good story to tell because in 2013 alone, as i said, the union and its member states provided eur 9.5 million in climate finance, including grants and loans from development banks and financial institutions in the member states. the eu member states also made almost half of the pledges for the green climate fund. we need more credit for the efforts already being made in what is a difficult economic situation. however, we also need to maintain our efforts to scale up further, in order to provide the reassurances that are needed. we have to use public funding in a smart way. public grant finance should be used to support the poorest and most vulnerable countries but it must also be used to leverage private investment in low-emission and climate-resilient technologies. here too the european union has an impressive story to tell. some members asked how we are going to coordinate with the sustainable development goals process. financing for development and climate finance must go hand in hand. we can be successful only if we integrate climate objectives into national development and into our development and cooperation portfolios. we work closely with our colleagues in development cooperation and with developing countries to ensure that the sustainable development goals (sdgs) and the climate processes recognise and make use of the synergies between development and climate action. inside the european union we have been doing our homework. the union has made a commitment that at least 20% of its entire budget for 2014-2020 should be spent on climate-relevant projects, and this provision applies not only to the union’s internal spending but also to our development cooperation budget. i would also repeat that it will be very important to involve the finance ministers in the run-up to paris. it is planned that the finance ministers will discuss climate finance in the ecofin council, and we expect ecofin council conclusions on climate finance in the second half of 2015. there was a specific question on how we were going to handle land use with regard to the intended nationally determined contributions (indc). i can tell members that land use will be part of the european union indc because the indc will be a translation of the october european council conclusions on the 2030 climate and energy framework, and they are clear that lulucf (land use, land use change and forestry) lulucf is covered in the eu target of domestic in-house emissions reduction of at least 40%. the question is not ‘if’ but ‘how’ to do it, because we have to design good accounting rules, building on and streamlining existing approaches, and they have to ensure environmental integrity and foster ambitious climate action in the land sector. we are working intensively on this but the issue will not be resolved by the time the eu indc is presented. many polish members have expressed concern about whether our climate ambitions could hamper the development of industry. i have to tell them that the agreement reached at the october council was unanimous and, specifically in relation to that point, when we were discussing the conditions of the emissions trading scheme (ets) the policy situation was taken into account. there are very specific measures that we will have to take account of when we draw up our ets proposal: we will have to take into account the different situations. there are still many things that we have to tackle ahead of paris. there are the problems of differentiation between countries’ obligations depending on their responsibilities and capabilities. there are also the questions of climate finance and the legal form and force of the future agreement. still to be determined, too, are the extent to which, and how, the 2015 agreement will address controversial issues such as adaptation to the impacts of climate change, and dealing with loss and damage when those impacts occur, promoting or regulating international carbon markets and establishing how we are going to save them. that is why it is important that this parliament is able to deliver soon on the carbon market and the stability reserve, so that we will arrive in paris with a credible proposal on the basis that we have put into action an efficient carbon market and have given clear signals to industry to move in the direction of a low-carbon economy.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this debate which confirms the importance and urgency of the international negotiations in 2015 towards reaching an agreement on the post-2020 climate regime in paris. we recognise that the lima negotiations have been difficult. however, we should not give up when confronted by difficult situations and the work on finding agreement should continue, as there is no alternative to the paris conference. when it comes to announcements by the united states and china, i would like to stress that the us-china announcement was very important in that it is the first time that the two biggest emitters, representing 43% of global emissions, jointly announced future mitigation commitments, and in that they did so more than a year before the paris conference. of course we will need to have more information in order to analyse the pledge and wait for the others to come forward in order to assess how big a gap separates us from the below-2°c objective. therefore, we need to see how these announcements will be translated into intended nationally determined contributions. you also mentioned the climate and energy policy framework 2013. the long-awaited agreement on the 2013 climate and energy framework shows the eu’s determination to respond to climate change with ambitious targets and effective measures. the conclusions of the october 2014 european council provide essential guidance and building blocks for further work. the ets market stability reserve proposal, which was issued together with the 2030 framework package a year ago, is a priority file for the latvian presidency. we are keen to make very rapid progress on it and hope that informal discussions with the european parliament can start soon. the roadmap towards paris will show our obligations and intentions in the international context, and the forthcoming proposals on the energy union will be more focused on internal eu processes. still, i would like to use this opportunity to share with you a few points on the energy union. the establishment of the energy union is one of the priorities of the latvian presidency, as was also made clear by our prime minister at the european parliament’s plenary session two weeks ago. we need an energy policy that is based on solidarity, trust and security, a better-integrated energy infrastructure, more efficient governance and sustainability. as you know, the european council in december called on the commission to present a comprehensive energy union proposal before the march european council, and the presidency will lead the discussions in the council to prepare the endorsement of a strategy by the european council in march. 2015 is a crucial year in the international climate domain and is important for international negotiations on sustainable development. the global agreement on combating climate change has to be achieved in paris. successful international negotiations on climate change will be one of the priorities of the latvian presidency. we will do everything possible to ensure effective european union representation at international negotiating sessions, and we understand that on the way to an agreement we must be prepared for very intensive work. this will also be an important year for setting the international sustainable development agenda. on the way a to post-2015 framework development the european union must convey a strong and united position. this is also highlighted in the resolution of the european parliament. in order to be fully prepared, the latvian presidency intends to organise a discussion at the march environmental council on better integration of the environmental dimension in the post-2015 process. i would also like to thank ms mcavan for bringing the development dimension to today’s discussion, and i would like to recall that 2015 has been marked as european union year of development. we will have the third financing for development conference in addis ababa, the un post-2015 summit in new york, and the paris conference as a culminating event. therefore this year will be important, not only to the climate process. we will also have to work hard to agree on the new post-2015 development agenda. the latvian presidency stands ready to assist in steering discussions towards a common eu position. the run-up to paris will see very intensive negotiations and meetings at different levels and in various formats. as on previous occasions, your support in outreach efforts to our partners worldwide is very much appreciated. i look forward to continuing this exchange and working closely together for the best possible outcome in paris, and i would like to thank you for today’s very fruitful debate.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. the outcome of the last climate summit in lima was only a minimal consensus, and the road to a global climate agreement in paris is becoming rocky. too many conflicts between developed and developing countries need to be resolved by the end of the year to adopt a treaty text that for the first time contains legally binding objectives and measures for all countries. as the host, the european union has a great responsibility to break down the rigid fronts between the developing and the developed countries and to act as a bridge between the different expectations of the two camps. this will be a test of the european union's standing in the world and the eu's ability to conduct climate diplomacy. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's climate change strategy. the financial commitments are crucial for developing countries to be able to compromise. after the fiasco of the copenhagen climate summit, europe cannot afford a second embarrassment. otherwise, humanity risks losing the race against time to limit global warming to two degrees.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. greece has voted and the people have spoken. after many years of building up a system of economic policy, which has been laid down in various legislative acts and treaties, the people are now simply saying: no! it does not accept the rules that come from the european level. it has its own will. the european union is faced with a problem. how do you deal with this, given that this is the expression of the democratic will of the people? how can we insist on compliance with regulations and recommendations at european level when the people have democratically voted 'no' to it? the whole problem shows how serious the conflict is between the claim of the european union to govern in the states and the will of the people to be able to go their own way. we must return to the non-assistance clause, to the principle of responsibility for one's own economic policy actions. this is the only way to restore the responsibility of the states.
that concludes this item of the agenda.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday, 28 january 2015.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 5 february 2015 in accordance with rule 152 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: the political groups have asked for today's sitting to be extended until 10 p.m. (parliament adopted the resolution)
- i'm not going to. the one-minute speeches are scheduled for today. you'll have plenty of time afterwards. if you think we should do something different in the rules of procedure, i will take note of your wish. we shall discuss this at the conference of presidents. but first, there is enough time for one minute's explanations this evening. tuesday: no changes. wednesday: with regard to the debate on the 'humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria as a result of the violence perpetrated by is', the green group calls for the title to be changed to 'humanitarian crisis in iraq and syria, particularly in the context of is'.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the eu to take action to combat the situation in the former yugoslavia.
wednesday (continued): i have received a request from a sufficient number of individual members to put on the agenda a commission statement on the 70th anniversary of the yalta agreement with a resolution. mr marek jurek has asked to speak to give the reasons for the request.
the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to try to explain again why the epp would like to try to draft a resolution on the very difficult subject of child sexual abuse. i would like to ask you to join us in a joint resolution of the alliance of 50 countries, including the european union and almost all the member states, and to make it publicly clear that sexual abuse of children is at the top of our agenda - despite all the problems - and that we are united in our desire to combat sexual abuse of children. we will make it clear later in the libe committee and perhaps later with an own-initiative report or other initiatives here that we do not want to stand by and watch this increasing abuse of thousands of children, but to fight together, unitedly, to do something about it. this is supposed to be a launching shot, so to speak, which we will all join together.
thank you very much, mr. glezos. the request for a debate on the situation in greece has now been tabled a little late. i would ask your group to come back to the conference of presidents at your request.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the commission's expert group on the enforcement of intellectual property rights of pavel svoboda, jean-marie cavada and angel dzhambazki, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs (o-000001/2015 b8-0102/2015) (2014/2972(rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. many studies confirm the important contribution of intellectual property rights to the eu economy. the commission also expresses this in the 2014 action plan, including the plan to set up an additional expert group for this purpose. we social democrats support the call for the eu action plan. the infringements of intellectual property rights cause a high economic damage. the oecd estimates that the global economy loses around eur 200 billion each year as a result of copyright infringements. it is of particular importance to us as social democrats and s&ds that the interests of cultural workers be taken into account. this should be taken more into account in the action plan and should be the focus of the expert group. if the commission comes to this conclusion, we social democrats will demand a clear definition of the commission's role, as some of the commissioners have done. i think it would be good if we could read it in writing again as a committee of inquiry and as members of parliament. it is essential that both meps and civil society actors, such as consumer organisations, trade unions and, in particular, cultural professionals, are involved. we believe that the establishment of an expert group requires close cooperation with the parliamentary bodies.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in december 2014 commissioner oettinger went on record to answer three questions i had tabled under rule 130 regarding this current incarnation of the commission’s group of experts on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. he announced he would have the list of members of this expert group published along with ‘all relevant documents, including agendas and minutes of each meeting’. so far, 13 out of the 28 member state authorities remain unlisted in the register entry for this expert group. no minutes for the first and only meeting so far have been published. meeting documents of this first meeting also remain unpublished. so, while the answer to my parliamentary question came from commissioner oettinger and not from the commissioner in charge, the open task remains the same. therefore, do get serious on the transparency and proper record-keeping of this group. will the commission commit itself to deliver these basic requirements on a specific date? along with my fellow colleagues from the committee on legal affairs, i agree that it is important that there is no duplication in the setting-up of this expert group and the ohim observatory. the commission should also comment on such a possible overlap and the apparent disconnect of this expert group from its predecessors also set up by the commission in previous years. the burden of proof is on the commission to show that this expert group will go beyond the ohim observatory and its rather extensive mandate. if such an added benefit exists, it would rather call for the readjustment of the eu observatory mandate. so far no observer status has been given to members of this parliament but there are no procedural reasons not to, as article 53 of the commission decision on setting up these expert groups allows the chair to assign observer status to every entity listed in rule 8(3) of the horizontal rules for commission expert groups. therefore, the commission should assign observer status to parliament and it should do so immediately. the committee on legal affairs will be happy to follow the work of this working group very actively. finally, i would like to know if the purpose of this expert group is about to go in the same direction as that of the ohim observatory, whose work programme for this year expressly includes the public domain and open licensing. it is very important when developing measures for intellectual property enforcement to analyse how they affect creative works in the public domain or under a free licence model.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the fight against infringements of intellectual property rights is of particular importance for the cultural and creative industries. the european union is a leader in industrial innovation, new design and the creative economy. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents. for this reason, i welcome in principle the establishment of an expert group on the enforcement of intellectual property rights announced by the commission in the eu action plan on the enforcement of intellectual property rights and the plans to further intensify the work with the observatory, with ohim. however, it should be noted that the clear mission of this new group of experts does not overlap with that of the experts from the observatory who have been added. i would also like to support the fact that it is extremely important to involve representatives of parliament and the relevant committees, just as it is with the observatory. the european union cannot afford to have its cultural and creative industries and its large creative industries suffer from the sometimes massive infringements of intellectual property. it is therefore of enormous importance to exchange views with all the actors and to bring the cultural and creative sectors to the table, including in this new group of experts. structures should be created to make it easier for small and individual actors to assert their rights. if the european union is to maintain its leading role as a centre of innovation for new designs, technology and culture, better cooperation in tackling intellectual property infringement at all levels is essential. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think it is very important that we exclude the agreements or agreements we have made in parliament, especially with regard to the creative industries and the cultural aspects in the negotiations, for example, on the international trade agreement ttip, and make it clear that we want special consideration to be given to our european specificities. the commission should also be consulted on this matter in this forum, so that we can take the position of european creatives more clearly and more strongly into account here too.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who are still here. we are talking today about the commission's decision to set up an expert group on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. two comments on this: we have a common internal market. that's good, and that's important, and nobody wants to shake that either. but what we have is an office for that purpose: the office for harmonization in the internal market. the protection of intellectual property rights is already there. so when the commission now sets up another group of experts, just for this subject, it is reminiscent of a popular game. in german, they say: "if you don't know any more, then start a working group". it seems as if one hand doesn't know what the other is doing. or worse, one hand doesn't even know the other one exists. if it's not that in this case, then i want to address the real problem, which is that it's less about creating double structures that it's obviously about. i think we all have not understood what the commissioner has said to us here, why it is not a double structure. anyway, i didn't get that. the problem is that if we want to increase the citizens' support for the european union, we should not create more working groups and offices, but abolish them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, i think, in the spirit of your question, that is certainly another important contribution to this. further committees will be set up. the citizens are wondering what they're doing here. this is increasing the frustration of the citizens of the european union towards the commission, and the commissioner has just tried to explain to us the difference between the existing group, the existing office, and the newly created expert office or expert group. if i were to ask the question now, who can define that? i think that no one can say exactly what the difference is between the newly created office and the one that already exists. so that's another frustration.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it is very important to protect the achievements of our creative minds across europe. i am therefore in favour of strong copyright, patent and trademark protection and think that the creation of the expert group last year was a sensible idea. but now we have found that the alicante trademark office is also taking up this task. we have a new commission which has set itself the objective of reducing bureaucracy and promoting lean structures, and i therefore believe that we can do without the double structure that exists now. the expert group is obsolete. we will continue to work intensively in parliament over the coming weeks and months on the question of how we can develop copyright in this united europe, especially with regard to the digitisation of our lives and our value chains. we must have the discussion here, not the expert group. in that respect, i think we can do without the expert group. i would like to thank our chairman of the legal affairs committee for initiating this debate. i think it's necessary to discuss this.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the renewal of the mandate of the internet governance forum (2015/2526 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not stakeholders from 144 countries attended the last internet governance forum in istanbul. the stated aim of this open forum is to inspire those who have decision-making power over the design and use of the internet through discussions held there. the forum is based on a un mandate: it is to serve the implementation of article 19 of the human rights convention, the right to freedom of expression. the forum lives on the power of being noticed and respected worldwide. but internet governance is more than just regulation, it is a much more holistic approach. the key issues identified as being of current concern are rights, freedom and access to information and user rights on the internet. the world economic forum in davos this year also addressed fundamental questions of the net. it is worth noting that representatives of companies concluded, among other things, that some applications on the internet can lead to an undesirable concentration of power and that there is an existential interest in connecting seven billion people worldwide equally. the best way to achieve both has been demonstrated to be through a good safeguard of net neutrality. in the united states, the signs of the times have clearly been recognized. tom wheeler, the head of the fcc, is pushing for strict net neutrality, and we should be listening in europe. that's why he wants to strictly prohibit any paid promotion, blocking or slowing down of any content, because the lax handling of it has brought competition to a standstill in america. let us not fall for the rhetoric of the local operators who now say: "we don't need that, we still have competition. yes, it still works because we do not have the free play of free forces here, because we have realized that the debate on special services is more than an economic one, and it is about the prioritization of overtaking lanes and the restriction of freedom of communication. that's why you have to use the internet governance forum platform.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the year 2015 will be a pivotal one in the development of new structures in internet governance. the european union must continue to play an active part in these international debates. the igf has in the past provided a constructive and concrete framework for this international exchange with all stakeholders. this should be ensured in the future by continuing and extending the igf's mandate. it is particularly important in this context to emphasise the importance of the multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance. this approach should be pursued further, as only through dialogue with all stakeholders can viable solutions for the internet and internet governance be found. the model of internet governance by various stakeholders should therefore not be limited. the intergovernmental approach, which is repeatedly called for by individual groups, is, i believe, the wrong way to go. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the internationalisation of the main functions and organisations of the internet is of the utmost importance. icann's internationalisation should therefore be further promoted without compromising trust and security. i would therefore like to stress that icann's work should be fully accountable and transparent. the internationalisation of the iana process, of the iana functions with high priority, should also be further promoted. here again, i expect the european commission to play an active role, and i would also like to support the approach of my colleague to send a stronger delegation to the next igf.
mr president, the internet is global by nature. although the internet governance forum is not a decision-making body, it has become an important part of the global dialogue on internet governance. yet much work remains to be done to ensure that everybody can participate in this dialogue in a meaningful way. governments, civil society, the technical community and industry participate in the igf. it is clear that some of those groups have to rely more than others on external support for their participation. the participation of civil society, particularly, must be actively supported by the european union. stable financing of the igf is important to ensuring its political independence. this is all the more important considering that at the last igf in istanbul, local opposition groups complained that they were not included in the official programme and had to resort to organising an internet ungovernance forum in parallel to make themselves heard. in addition, parliamentary opposition is one group that is still missing at the igf. therefore the european union must not only ensure that the igf is adequately funded, but this parliament must also allow all political groups to send representatives to the igf to be fully represented at this forum.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we need fair play on the internet, we need access for everyone to the internet, we need to prevent discrimination on the internet, we need to build trust on the internet. this means that data protection and intellectual property protection are essential. the internet governance forum is a very important platform for bringing our european values to bear. this forum has done its job in the past. so i very much hope that the mandate for the internet governance forum will be extended. and if it is extended, then we europeans must also be a very strong voice, we must be heard. i would like to stress what my colleague sabine verheyen said, namely that a strong presence from the centre of parliament, alongside the commissioners responsible, is also important in the negotiations. i would like to take this opportunity, when we are talking about the further development of the legal framework for the internet, to remind you of our own homework and to ask the vice-president of the commission to remind the member states, also with regard to the basic regulation on data protection, with regard to the telecommunications package, that we are finally making progress here, that we are moving forward in the negotiations, so that we can complete our homework quickly in europe and then, with a strong position, be able to strike internationally.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, consumer sensitivity about the origins of the foods they eat has certainly grown over recent years. consequently, origin has become of increasing relevance for businesses and also for policy-makers. before turning to the honourable members’ questions, allow me to say a few words about the commission’s report on the issue. the main purpose of the report is to set out in a neutral and objective manner all relevant factors in order to launch an informed discussion with parliament and the council. the report relies principally on the external study, which also includes a consumer survey. the coverage of the report is broad and heterogeneous. it covers all pre-packed foods with meat ingredients of all species. products can range from relatively simple meat preparations, such as fresh meat with spices, to more processed meat-related products such as pizza bolognese. the supply chains of such products can also be quite complex and lengthy. given the broad scope of the report, any estimated impacts must inevitably be both general and varied. turning to the oral question, on the first point i would like to clarify that the commission has not yet decided on any follow-up action. the report itself does not suppose or imply any a priori position of the commission on the subject. the honourable member’s second point cites a consumer study alleging that the cost-of-origin labelling of meat in processed foods is lower than price increases identified in the report. here i should point out that the commission report was based on estimates from the food industry. these estimates, as well as the methodology used, were discussed and endorsed in the context of a focus group comprised of professionals active in the food chain, including consumer associations. the figures provided in the commission’s report take into account meat of all species and all structures of food supply chains across europe. by contrast, the study mentioned by the honourable member relates solely to beef products in france. for beef, origin labelling is expected to have the lowest impact, notably because of the existing traceability system and relatively lower volumes of intra-eu trade in bovine beef animals and beef compared to the other species. in the case of france especially, there is a sufficient supply of domestic raw material for the production of processed beef products. these estimated increases of 15%-20%, and up to 50%, mentioned in the commission report refer to the additional operating costs for the industry and not the final product price, as is the case in the french study. these estimates correspond to the specific scenario where the indication of origin would be set at the member state / third country level. the additional cost to the industry for origin labelling set at the eu / non-eu level ranges from negligible to up to around 25%. i would also like to note that it would be difficult to establish the final product price. in particular, depending on the strength of retailers or the suppliers, some of the cost increase might be absorbed downstream in the food supply chain, to the detriment of suppliers, and only partially passed on to the final consumer. furthermore, the french study cited by the honourable member does not specify the level of origin indicated on the label. it is therefore impossible to compare the estimates provided by these two sources. finally, the french study summarised costs relating to origin indications provided on a voluntary basis. the estimations of price increases for voluntary schemes are less significant as they tend to cover cases where origin indication is feasible with relatively low cost. by contrast, mandatory origin labelling refers to all case scenarios, including those where it would be operationally difficult and costly. therefore the costs are higher. as regards the third point on consumer preference, as to the level of the origin indication the commission report fully reflects the observations pointed out by the honourable member. according to the report, an origin indication set at eu / non-eu level may be considered from the consumer’s perspective as too generic and not worthy of any resulting price increase. however, at the same time, the report stresses the paradox of a discrepancy between consumer interest in origin labelling and their willingness to pay for that information. mandatory origin labelling may negatively affect the consumption of needs-related foods. it is observed that consumers currently buy meat with origin indication less often than they would have wished, because of the price consideration. the price sensitivity is mainly reflected for origin labelling on meat used as an ingredient. the consumer would be interested in receiving the information at the highest level of detail possible if this information were to be offered without any price increase. turning to the last point on the voluntary labelling of the origin of meat in processed food, let me reassure the honourable member that such a system has also been addressed in the commission’s report. the external study which forms the basis of the report looked into existing private schemes approved at national or concentrated industrial level. the study concluded that the use of such voluntary schemes concerning the origin of meat ingredients in meat-based products is generally limited. where such schemes exist, they tend to be mostly private and not related only to geographical origin labelling, but rather form part of a wider quality initiative.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commissioner has just said that the consumer only wants this indication of the origin of meat in processed products if he does not have to pay extra for it. three quarters of consumers say: if it costs extra, if the product becomes more expensive, then i don't want it at all. i therefore do not understand why so many colleagues in this house insist that there must be this indication of origin. the consumer doesn't really want it. and the product is getting more expensive, yes, definitely! the commissioner has also said that. manufacturers have to factor in much higher costs. operating costs increase by up to 50%. in addition, we will have an increase in bureaucratic costs - plus 30% - and we are working against excessive bureaucracy. in addition, manufacturers need separate storage areas and have to design a lot of new labels and packaging. because a slice of sausage is easily loaded with four or five different countries of origin. so they have to design 400 to 500 different labels and packaging. who's gonna do that? the consumer does not want it, it costs a lot of money, it increases the bureaucratic burden, and there is no connection whatsoever between the horse meat scandal and a designation of origin. this parliament has made a very clear statement with the participation of all the groups which are now advocating this nonsensical, really nonsensical, indication of the origin of meat in processed products. finally, it must be said that this origin labelling is anti-social, because many people cannot afford to pay much more for their food, and that would be the case. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to two questions on the 'blue card' procedure. for the indication of the origin of ingredients, meat as an ingredient: ingredients do not have to be indicated with the origin at all. that is the answer to the question put by my colleague from the s&d group. the safety of products, my dear colleague from the right, has nothing to do with the fact that there is a statement of origin. we have european laws on food safety, hygienic quality, labelling, etc., which are the same everywhere in all member states. it is important that we have good control at home and that violations of the law are punished. the member states are responsible for this. the origin label has nothing to do with quality. it is, on the contrary, protectionist. it's coming from the right wing! i think it's a shame that the left wing is doing this.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. are you aware that the regulation on food information to consumers requires that the origin be indicated if the consumer is otherwise misled? this means that if the product gives the impression that it comes from somewhere other than where it actually comes from, then the origin must be indicated. do you know anything about that? secondly, you have cited the horse meat scandal as the reason for the origin labelling we are discussing today. are you aware that horse meat was declared as beef and that beef has been subject to mandatory origin labelling for many years?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr pedicini, are you aware that the regulation on food information to consumers contains an entire article which says everything possible against misleading the consumer by food labelling? it would therefore be a criminal offence for anyone to lie in a voluntary declaration of origin. i suggest you read this.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the foodstuffs are labelled in a transparent way. if we say on the one hand, "fresh meat yes, processed meat no", it's just inconsistent. that is why we must take the next step consistently. now it's time to close that gap. i ask myself, of course, why they don't do that. because two trends in the food industry are clear: organic and regional with a good origin not only bring higher prices, but also bring more to the producers. these trends must be followed in other areas as well. on the other hand, there is a food industry which wants to buy cheaply, anonymously, throughout europe, and without controls. i am a little surprised that the commission is taking the arguments of the food industry so lightly and is spreading horrifying figures, such as a 50% increase in the price. this is not proven; there are other studies. but, dear commission, and dear epp group, let us work together on practical solutions, such as the implementation of labelling, but not blockade the consumer and offer no solutions at all. we must continue to increase confidence in european food. that's a job for us. and that this will eventually lead to consumers appreciating european food because of its proven safety has been clearly demonstrated in many places in recent years. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr. häusling, you just said we don't have any controls. is that really so? you must know better. we don't have a lot of regulations for food production, for the right quality, which i think is good. so we already have the origin labelling for fresh meat. we have many other high-quality standards which we are also defending in ttip. do you really believe what you're saying, that there are no controls? it's not like that. on the contrary, is there not perhaps too little control? is it not true that fraudsters have the opportunity to slip through the cracks because there is too little control in the existing laws? isn't that enough?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i did not say that we do not have controls. i said that the industry would like to see less controls. we could have implemented very few legal provisions if we had always listened to the complaints of industry. they were also against the labelling of fresh meat. so we are not here as politicians to be the chief lobbyist of an industry, but we are consistently implementing consumer wishes! it is perhaps necessary to take action against those who think they represent an entire industry and its interests. there are many who have gained advantages in the market with clear labelling and good rules, and we should listen to them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the present motion for a resolution on the indication of the origin of processed meat in foodstuffs calls on the european commission to take action. we know that 90% of consumers in the eu want to know where the meat they want to eat in their pizza, lasagna or meatballs comes from. i would also like to comment on some of the arguments that have been put forward. first, the argument is that this will make food much more expensive. i think that apples have been compared to pears and that we must talk about production costs on the one hand and costs for consumers on the other. there's going to be big differences. the 50% or up to 50% mentioned in the report is, in my view, far too high. i think it will be much less and consumers will be happy to pay one cent more. i would like to make one more point. this is where producer interests meet consumer interests. we would be doing this by labelling, at the same time as we would be limiting the dumping competition of the meat traders and making it more regional, in other words, by favouring smaller circuits. i therefore expressly support this motion for a resolution and hope that we will thereby meet the consumer's wishes. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. do you not think that the mandatory labelling of meat as an ingredient will put even more pressure on the price of meat producers, i.e. farmers? as far as i know, the price pressure on meat is already quite significant.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. i can't believe you did that. i think that producers are also interested in the fact that we have good products and that they pay the corresponding price and that the relations between producers and consumers are also much stronger. mr häusling also mentioned this that people want to know where the meat comes from and that it is preferred from the region in a small circle. you mean the butchers. i am therefore expressly in favour of opposing dumping at this point.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am absolutely in favour of consumers being able to see through the food they buy. i also think it is perfectly right that we have very strict food regulations in europe, which also need to be controlled - perhaps not always controlled enough. the horse meat scandal, that was really officially cheated. it said beef, and it said horse. we can't prevent that from happening by not labeling the world. we must try to find out who is trying to cheat. that's right. but what good is it to have a labelling obligation for processed meat in various finished products? is it really important for us to know whether a particular meat ingredient comes from denmark or poland or germany? as long as we can trust that if the controls are right that this is all being done sensibly. for example, do we know whether meat coming from denmark for my sake is guaranteed to be of better quality than if it came from somewhere else? we have the same quality standards everywhere. that's why i don't think it's a big deal. i think consumers want good quality, and they want transparency about it. it is of no use to know which of the european countries is now producing it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for this debate we are having tonight on this very emotional subject. it is very important to me that european consumers can obtain transparent and reliable information about their food. the first priority must be to build confidence in our agricultural products. we cannot, however, patronize our citizens. the consumer should be able to weigh quality and price. i am therefore absolutely convinced that we should take into account the increased desire for regionality in the origin of our food. protected designations of origin and protected indications are important and enriching in order to serve certain markets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that a debate on the further development of voluntary labelling of processed meat would be necessary and more useful than relying on commitments. in my view, this would take account of the central aspect, namely that the added value for the consumer would be real and that the additional bureaucratic effort for businesses, especially small and mediumsized enterprises, would be proportionate, desirable and ultimately worthwhile.
mr president, without encryption, every e-mail one sends and every word one types into a website can easily be intercepted, read and even modified. encryption is essential to protect the integrity of the communications of individuals and businesses in europe. this is especially important given how ineffective the european union has been at stopping the surveillance of its people politically. after the snowdon revelations, eu governments told people to rely on encryption. it is unacceptable to call their right to use encryption into question now. we must promote encryption technologies and ensure that they are available to everyone. we must reject government backdoors in security software. such backdoors can always be used by criminals as well. we must reject mass data retention. we know that blanket surveillance only increases the size of the haystack; it does not help in finding the needles. we must also reject internet censorship in the form of secret website-blocking lists. the freedom and openness of our society must not be compromised.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to make one point: we, the group of the european socialist party, will not allow the right to strike to be relaxed! mrs thyssen, we share your view that it is really important for you to have an impact on the member states in europe and to have your voice heard within the ilo, because the right to strike - and my colleagues and you have also said this - is a fundamental right in europe. the social charter is part of the lisbon treaty. we have learned in europe that successful economies are those with strong social partnerships. but a strong social partnership also means social partners on an equal footing. and eye level also means we have strong unions. that includes the right to strike. in recent years, the right to strike has been repeatedly attacked in europe. the right to strike has also been restricted by means of restrictions in the countries in crisis under the troika. i hear and read from trends in europe that there are institutions, parties, employers' associations that want to reform and soften this right to strike. this weakens the bargaining power of the unions. we have a clear message: defend the beginnings! the attack on a fundamental right in europe can have a domino effect and restrict other rights. we expect you to work for a settlement of the dispute within the ilo in the interests of workers and to defend our fundamental european rights.
the commission has already done so. i am speaking specifically in this debate as a member of the commerce committee. commissioner, i agree with your comments on the trade agreements. new global production and value chains are rapidly emerging. this is a direct comparison of the living and working conditions of workers in different parts of the world, in very different economic and social contexts. we must therefore quickly establish the appropriate regulatory framework. the un charter of human rights, the ilo conventions and case law and the un social pact remain the starting point. article 8 (d) guarantees the right to strike, which is a binding international law, ratified by 162 states. trade and economic cooperation need legal protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. exploitation in competition means social dumping. the right to strike is a legitimate means of combating this and must be defended internationally by the european union. otherwise, we are undermining the obligation to respect ilo convention 87 as a core norm in the sustainability chapters of eu trade agreements.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, thank you for your initiative. the more than seven million unemployed young people in europe are still a european catastrophe and we really need the youth guarantee to be implemented quickly. the commission has taken a good step in the right direction in the last week. the commission has already decided to make available 30% of the funds this year instead of 1%. this means that 650,000 young people can get a job. that's 650,000 times a new perspective and 650,000 times a good start to life. we welcome above all the political decision to put an end to the unsuccessful radical austerity policy. because we don't need more restrictions for people who are already living at the limit, but we urgently need investment. a good example is finland. in the netherlands, the youth guarantee has helped 83.5% of young people to find suitable work after three months of unemployment. this must be a model for other states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, one year ago, around this time, i was sitting in an unemployment office discussing my own future with a nice, yet quite unmotivated, assistant in the unemployment agency. i was filling in forms, calculating how much money i had for my rent, food, train tickets and health insurance. i was thinking about my life, my dreams, what plans i had for my future, and i thought about my place in society: where do i belong? i have always been in a privileged position. i come from a country where youth unemployment is proportionately low. i come from a middle class, white family and i have a university degree. still, the ultimate question that was always there in my mind was: what is my value for this society? raised in an environment and an educational system where having a job is a synonym for being valuable, millions of young people probably ask themselves exactly the same question every day. every day, young people are asking themselves what they have done wrong when people are telling them that they just need to try harder. people are telling them to try harder when trying harder is just not enough anymore. we need to make this very clear. this is not an individual problem of paolo from minorca or kasia from cracow. it is a systematic problem that was brought about by wrong political decisions in the past. every day, especially in times of more and more alarming information leaking about tax fraud and tax avoidance, young people are asking themselves if we are doing enough to solve these problems, if we are willing to learn from luxleaks and swiss leaks and change a system that brings these problems every day. what we need is a fairer tax system and public investment to start this process. strengthening the youth guarantee, as proposed by the commission now, is only one step on a long and winding road to a solution, because eventually we will have to decide if we are standing side by side with the many million young people who are unemployed and desperate or if we support the interests of the few, yet powerful, people and companies hiding their wealth in tax havens and avoiding paying their share. when i was sitting in the unemployment office, one year ago, i took my decision. i would fight for the many who are often overheard and overlooked. now i am in a position to speak to you, mrs thyssen, directly, and i want to say you, and to all your colleagues in the commission, that this is only a first step. what we need now is, first, for you to push the member states to really implement the youth guarantee in a way that will directly benefit young people, but secondly – and i think this is even more important – to push for policies that are going to take the european union on a different path and that will really create employment so that young people have a future in europe.
in writing. i welcome commissioner marianne thyssen's proposal to increase the amount of pre-financing for member states to promote youth employment in 2015. this is a constructive and concrete proposal which will help to break the vicious circle. member states with the highest level of youth unemployment have difficulty in providing the necessary payment for the implementation of the youth employment initiative measures. under this proposal, the eu will increase the pre-financing rate in its 2015 budget from 1-1,5% to up to 30%. these changes will increase the effectiveness of the system. the use of the funds available to member states facing budgetary constraints will be made easier.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank ms ulvskog and parliament for initiating this debate. i see employee financial participation as part of a broader narrative of sustainable entrepreneurship in europe which i want us to support and to encourage. it is a complex issue with wider implications. recent research suggests that companies with employee shareholders tend to create more jobs, pay more taxes and relocate less than those without. employees owning shares could also increase the proportion of long-term oriented shareholders and provide a solution to some business succession problems. a number of recent commission proposals have aimed to address the weaknesses in corporate governance identified during the financial and economic crisis. the proposal for a shareholders’ rights directive is part of this agenda. i am convinced that we will find a sound compromise. this being said, currently less than one third of companies in the eu offer financial participation to their employees. it may also be an internal market issue as the divergence in national, legal and fiscal rules for such schemes could create barriers to cross-border plans. the commission committed in its 2012 action plan on company law and corporate governance to investigating potential obstacles to transnational employee share ownership schemes and to taking appropriate action to promote employee share ownership throughout europe. the pilot project launched in september 2013, which consisted of a comprehensive study, and the conference held in january 2014 helped the commission in analysing the existing obstacles. the commission intends to make the comprehensive information gathered in the study widely available to all interested parties. given the diversity in national approaches to employee financial participation across the eu and the resulting cross-border problems, the commission encourages the exchange of best practices, be it between member states but also between companies and employees. when reflecting on the way forward the commission will also take duly into account parliament’s resolution from january 2014, as well as contributions from stakeholders. we will also be guided by the principles set out in the 1992 council recommendation on employee financial participation. let me also stress one important aspect: financial participation should not be a substitute for the main income. instead it should play a complimentary role and be paid in addition to a fixed wage. such schemes should in principle be open to all employees and treat them without any discrimination, unless some differentiation is justified given the employees’ different needs or interests. the commission takes note of parliament’s resolution, in particular as regards consultation of workers or their representatives on such schemes before their introduction. social partners taking part in negotiations at company level, according to national practices and traditions, should be involved. employees belonging to trade unions should not be discriminated against. the 1992 council recommendation also underlined the need to take into account national collective bargaining legislation or practices when choosing between the schemes available. negotiations on such schemes should not replace the normal negotiations on wage setting and working conditions. the potential risks of financial participation also need to be addressed. employees participating in such schemes are exposed to the risk of losing both their job and their savings in the event of serious problems in their company. this is one of the most commonly seen drawbacks of employee financial participation. reasonable risks when designing and running such schemes need to be avoided and employees should be provided with sufficient information about the details of the schemes and any risks involved.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not models of employee financial participation can be of lasting benefit to both companies and employees. this goes beyond the economic element: it is also about mutual appreciation, identification between companies and employees - this can also be strengthened by such models. it also serves the purpose of ensuring the long-term sustainability of the company. to make these models more widely known across the eu, we need a stronger exchange of best practice examples. these include the sociedades laborales in spain and the employee participation foundation of voestalpine ag, the only model in europe with international voting rights in individual shareholding. but to realise these benefits for both sides, clear ground rules are needed. this includes information and consultation of employee representatives, but also participation in decision-making bodies, early and full involvement of employees or their representatives in the establishment of such a model, the involvement of the social partners and a degree of protection of employees against the double risk of losing capital in the context of participation on the one hand and the usual risk of losing their jobs on the other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension. commissioner, i would ask you to clarify how you intend to ensure that these basic rules are followed, especially in crossborder models of employee financial participation. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the european social partners.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am speaking here today not only as a member of the european parliament but also as someone who has spent many years in business, in small and mediumsized enterprises, before moving to this parliament. i can already say that employee participation makes a lot of sense in my view, in three ways: for the employees, for the employers, but also for the companies. so it's good that we're dealing with this issue, even though i've been very surprised that this has been an issue for so many years and decades without anyone coming to a reasonable conclusion. i would like to make two or three points on why this is good for workers and for employers. for the employees, this is obvious, it is a direct participation in the companies and in the company's success, but it is also a stronger attachment of the employees to their companies and thus a higher motivation. it is good for companies and employers because they can tie their most important capital, their employees, even more closely to their companies and thus perhaps also improve their capital structure and to a certain extent their credit rating. i would also like to say that it is important to implement this instrument of employee participation in europe as a complementary rather than a mandatory element, for a number of reasons. i'm from germany. we have good structures in germany, for example a company pension scheme which is insolvency-proof and has been in place for a long time. with an employee share, we might have a double burden for many employees, by having to pay into the pension once and maybe into the employee share as well. the second problem is that incorporation is very easy in public limited companies, but it could be very difficult in small and medium-sized enterprises. that is why i say that we must be careful here, that we do not tell entrepreneurs that they have to give up property rights without wanting to do so. my conclusion: i want to continue to work on this. but i want to make it clear: complementary and voluntary, but by no means obligatory.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are debating today about employee participation in companies, and we - at least most of us - agreed that this is a very good idea. but we also discuss how to protect the workers if the company goes bankrupt and both the investment and the job are lost. it is typical of the eu and of this house to ask such a question. firstly, why are we even discussing this issue here at eu level? is it necessary to regulate this in a uniform way from finland to portugal? what happens if it's regulated differently? will the euro collapse again or will the european union collapse? second, when do we begin to understand that the chance of winning always comes with a risk of losing? whoever wants to share in the profit must also bear the loss, and not any third party. that is unfair, and that applies to employees as well. but what's clear in this discussion is your human image. the eu's image of humanity seems to be that people, including workers, cannot make decisions on their own. so he's a minor, and he's not free. that's not my portrait of a man. man is responsible for his actions. man is mature, and man is free. let's build our future on it! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the question concerned a europe-wide minimum wage: we in the alternative for germany do not think so and i personally do not think so. this is basically a decision between the workers and the employers or between the representative societies, between the employers' representatives and the workers' representatives, who have to regulate this. but we cannot make a uniform wage for all of europe. we have already seen what happens when we make a single currency for the whole of europe: there will always be those who suffer who cannot handle it flexibly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it's a step in the right direction now. we have now at least been able to answer the question whether those who commit road traffic offences abroad, which do in fact attract attention, can be prosecuted. i think that in the overall structure of the 28 member states it is not so easy to achieve this. but we must not forget that we must continue along this path. finally, if we look at the results of the vision zero strategy, we can see that the number of road deaths has fortunately been decreasing in recent years. this directive can only be part of the overall strategy. why do i say that? we have, of course, now the situation that if you are noticed in an eu member state, you can be addressed directly. only, the question is, what happens after that? i think that is of interest to the citizens. at the moment, the situation is that ultimately enforcement i.e. that the fine is actually collected is not the case. so we always assume that the person who committed the traffic offence will ultimately refuse to pay the fine. in that case - and i say this deliberately because i know that you will have to make an evaluation in 2016 - these very points must be taken into account in the next legislative proposal of the european commission. because i think it's only really complete when the thug on the street knows he can't get around paying that fine. it's a good start right now. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her really hard work. i look forward to the new legislative proposal which will eventually bring these things in.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this report is of great importance for improving road safety, which we have overwhelmingly endorsed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to take action in this area. the road traffic offences which are mainly responsible for fatal accidents are all too familiar to us. these include excessive speeding, drunk driving or driving under the influence of drugs, failure to wear a seat belt and running a red light. that's what these traffic violations are about today. they must be punished, regardless of the member state in which they are committed and the member state in which the vehicle used to commit the offences is registered. serious road traffic offences simply cannot go unpunished in an internal market. an electronic data exchange network will be set up, which will meet the strict european data protection requirements. this allows mutual access to vehicle registration data, a prerequisite for facilitating or speeding up the investigation of a criminal offence and enabling its prosecution. now that the legal basis has been adjusted in line with the ecj ruling of may 2014, i am reassured. there are no longer any exceptions; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is applied in the member states. road safety does not stop at national borders. in my view, safe mobility for eu citizens has become a fundamental right. we are far from the goal of vision zero. there are other steps to follow.
i have to say, madam president, so far, it has been possible to simply cross the line in europe and commit a traffic offence while on holiday abroad without being punished. but it's not a chivalrous offence if you commit really serious traffic offences - that's a crime! it can endanger other people, and that's why it can't be. we have already made europe's roads safer by harmonizing vehicle inspections. it is only logical that we should now also try to be able to track traffic offenders across borders. it is right that we have a responsible exchange of data and it is also good that other member states can identify holders. we want free movement in europe in general, of course - that is a principle - but this must be done in a fair and equitable way, and everyone must respect the rules. i therefore think it is good that we have this on the agenda again, in order to make it legally correct so that it applies in all the member states. we want free movement, but we must not have any more mercy for serious traffic offenders. we simply need more safety on europe's roads! we are of course happy to support the commissioner in her efforts to implement it in our member states.
i would like to thank mr buonanno. you've been talking way too long. her last remarks remain hidden from the public because they could no longer be interpreted by the interpreters. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - thank you, mr president. i see from the list of speakers this afternoon that for one of the subsequent points of discussion, namely the situation in ukraine, mr president, mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken the initiative to put forward this report. good morning is not registered to speak. i would invite him, if he perhaps wishes to speak about the situation in ukraine, to come to this chamber in a few hours' time and discuss it there. i'll be here, i don't know if he will be. many of you have mentioned things which i mentioned in my opening remarks and which i would like to underline. thank you for joining our voices in this respect. i think this is a powerful message from this parliament, and from the european institutions united, and i hope that this message gets to where it has to go. some of you mentioned the fact that this is not only important for the country itself, but it is also important for the region. i would also add that it is important for global security and stability, and that i will never, ever accept the idea that one has to focus solely on crises and human rights violations and conflicts that are close to our borders, because also what happens in places that are apparently far away from us affects our security and our global stability. we have to deal with that, as it is not only our specific responsibility but also in our interest, and i think we should all understand that in this room. let me underline one point that was mentioned by many of you and something that dr mukwege reminded us of, which is the role of women in this. the victims are always women, girls younger and younger every time, in every conflict and children. let me also mention the fact that there is a specific target. it is not by chance that it is always women who are the first victims or the first weapon in some conflicts. i can assure you that we are not only already working on this aspect in a specific way, in this particular case in the drc, with support for the victims whether medical or legal, on the reform of the security system, and on the reform of the judiciary - because we also have to face that side of the attack against women - but we are going to work more and more on the first victims of conflict and violence who, everywhere in the world, are women and children. let me also re-emphasize the need to be coherent. i thank those of you that raised this when you awarded the sakharov prize in this room only a few months ago. this implied that our support is not only to the person, but also to the work, mainly to the work of this person. i share these views, and i think that now today we need to guarantee protection to the person and to their work, and to collective work which is also a sign of hope for the country and for the region. on louis michel's proposal, let me say that i fully sympathise with this and i will make sure that once i go back to brussels i will study it with our eu special representative for human rights, stavros lambrinidis, to see in what ways we can support it. let me also say that i fully support the desire to curb the links between conflict and exploitation of natural resources. i know that the council is examining the draft resolution which was presented with the communication by the commission, and you have my personal commitment to that. i cannot guarantee that it will be enough, but i can guarantee that you have my personal commitment on it. let me finish with italian. cécile kyenge was right to remind this house today that death returned to the mediterranean yesterday, and not just yesterday. i take the opportunity that you have raised this issue here today to say that i have just informed the commission of my intention to convene an extraordinary meeting of the group of commissioners for external action, together with commissioner avramopoulos, to discuss how to review our immigration policies, to bring together the instruments that we have from the domestic point of view, our domestic policies, and our external policies with respect to countries of origin and transit, and i intend to put this issue on the agenda of the foreign affairs council of the european union soon. i believe that we cannot wait for more tragedies at sea, we must prevent them, and i also believe that the european union, if it has the political will, has the instruments to prevent these tragedies at sea.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the lack of funding for unrwa (2015/2563 ((rsp)). the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the reason for our debate today is the current threat to the unrwa reconstruction programme in the gaza strip. it is of great concern that the reconstruction support had to be suspended, among other things, because of late payments. after the gaza war last year, thousands of families are spending the winter in emergency shelters. people and children die of hypothermia all the time. the international community must ensure that the funds promised at the cairo donor conference actually arrive. to date, unrwa has received only about a quarter of the funds promised. the long-term financing is also important, especially in view of the current situation in the region. unrwa is a pole of stability in the middle east, not only in palestine but also in lebanon, jordan and syria. of particular importance is unrwa's school system, which has over half a million pupils. often these schools are the only place where children are taught democratic values and human rights. the financial situation has deteriorated further due to the war in syria.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into that. it's always nice to stick to the facts. the israeli forces were attacked from the gaza strip with aggressive, sustained fire. hamas continues to threaten the total annihilation of the jews. confirmed by unrwa, some of the rockets were stored in schools. that is why my question, and i am addressing it to the high representative, is this: how will we ensure that when money is released again, it is actually used for peaceful purposes? we must also keep this in mind. who was the aggressor, and who are the victims?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, that was not a question with a blue card to the speaker, but to the commissioner. i shall nevertheless give mr nart the opportunity to respond.
member of the commission. - mr president, allow me to close this debate by once again thanking this house for supporting the issue of palestine refugees and also for today’s lively, interesting and engaging debate. let me stress that the commission will continue to support the important work of the agency in the field. in this context, i am happy to confirm that the 2015 financing decision in relation to the contribution to the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees, which is worth eur 82 million, was adopted by the european commission today. in addition, the eu’s humanitarian aid and civil protection department is currently finalising a eur 5 million funding package for the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees for 2015, out of which eur 4 million has been earmarked for the agency’s shelter response in gaza. this money will cover cash assistance for improving shelter conditions for the most vulnerable households and providing household items which were lost during last year’s hostilities. once again i would like to repeat what i said in my introduction: it is important to address the issue of additional funding, in particular from countries from the gulf region and to channel their contributions via international organisations so that we can properly address the needs of refugees in the region.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in ukraine (2015/2560 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. what can this parliament do today to help resolve the conflict in ukraine? maybe there really are only three clear messages. firstly, the meeting in minsk tomorrow to resolve the crisis in ukraine is probably, or perhaps, the last chance to resolve the conflict through diplomatic means. the european union has also expressed its concern at the situation in the middle east, and has called for the immediate release of all political prisoners. we expect the russian leadership to make a serious effort and to negotiate a political solution to the conflict and to use its influence on the separatists in a positive way. secondly, ukraine can count on our political and economic support. there will be no military solution to the conflict. the supply of arms would not help to defuse the conflict, but would do the opposite. that's why we reject arms shipments to ukraine. thirdly, our aim is and remains the integration of russia into pan-european political, economic and security structures. we have an interest in a russia that participates in the solution of international conflicts. we are in favour of talks between the eu and the newly created eurasian economic area. but without substantial progress, there can be no such talks.
the european parliament, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i know! there is no military solution in ukraine and there must be no military solution, because the country's social contradictions require a different policy to solve them. the country does not need weapons, but social alternatives that break once and for all with the omnipotence of the oligarchs and the galloping corruption. without this, neither social peace nor cooperative relations with all neighbours seem possible. the eu is responsible for what happened and is happening in ukraine, as is the russian federation. the european union is therefore pleased that the parties will be meeting again in minsk tomorrow to seek a comprehensive solution to the conflict. it is clear that we must disagree with those who selfishly declare that the minsk format and its results have failed. i know! the agreement has not yet been implemented, but has been violated, but its central points must not be ignored, including minsk 2: the safeguarding of territorial integrity, the initiation of a solution through a supervised ceasefire and the military separation of the combatants, the binding search for a new, also institutional, balance between the east and the west of the country.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. it is quite clear to me that this initiative by mrs merkel and president hollande was an important attempt to turn the tide. it is important that the two of them in kiev consulted president poroshenko, consulted him before they got the main person responsible for this whole war in the east, namely president putin, to sit at the same table for the first time in a long time. the whole european union is watching with interest what is happening there. i believe that it has been a long time since two european heads of state have had and still have so much support from citizens throughout the european union, because it is about peace. that is what the european union stands for. this is what europeans would like to keep in the eu. they want the peace we're used to. but you also have to understand that there is a very different mood in ukraine at the same time. people are wishing more and more that they can return to a life without war. i am always fascinated by the fact that the people of ukraine have not completely run out of air. they've thought so many times that there's a turn for the better, but every time there's a turn for the worse. they too are now watching what is happening in minsk with fascination, but they are no longer as optimistic as we are, but rather afraid that there will be another as always in minsk such a salamistic tactic, which will end up exacerbating the situation in eastern ukraine. i don't know, man. i hope, i must say, for a miracle. i don't believe in miracles, even with angela involved. i am very much in agreement with mr van baalen that if this attempt fails, we must talk again about what we can do. there has been far too much hesitation and indecision in the european union. the sanctions - i have only to think of mr hahn, who represents austria - austria, others have repeatedly doubted that we as a soft power have an alternative to military means. but we will have to discuss this again if minsk fails. we will also have to discuss what it means that we always say that ukraine has the right to defend itself. if the idea of the euromaidan falls, if the idea of freedom, the rule of law and justice - that is what it was all about - falls, then a piece of europe will indeed fall. this solidarity must not only be present in this situation, but solidarity with russia, which we will need for a long time to come. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think this is another attempt to saddle an italian debate on a really big problem. and i do not know what the problem will be for the citizens of italy if angela merkel and françois hollande manage to negotiate a ceasefire with the russians and ukrainians in minsk. i think that you, i and mrs mogherini can only applaud this. so why don't you give yourself a little insignificance in this debate?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr borghezio and mr ransdorf, the radical right and the radical left are always the same. we must see that the european union and its member states have given 250 billion euros to greece. i ask you to take note of that. the european union is united, in a tremendous effort, in the sanctions against the aggressor. because russia is an aggressor, a party to the conflict and has violated international law. we must take this very seriously. it is important that russia, as a party to the conflict, takes responsibility. we must see that sanctions are our instrument - not weapons, but sanctions, because we do not want war - to tell the aggressor that the cost is high and that there can be a downturn if necessary. we must see that the government in kiev - the yanukovych people were the thieves, mr ransdorf - that the politicians in ukraine, the government elected by the people on a pro-european course, are having difficulty in implementing their reform process because their country is being waged by a foreign power and the war is costing money. that's why you shouldn't turn things around. the compromise which the ukrainian government is demanding at this hour to make a ceasefire possible is a tremendous achievement. that is why it was consulted before hollande and merkel went to moscow. poroshenko will be at the negotiating table when the negotiations take place tomorrow. this is a way - and i would also like to expressly say this on behalf of the european people's party - of supporting the minsk mission and supporting the way - of achieving a ceasefire, perhaps the last attempt to prevent the war from spreading, in order to bring about a peaceful solution in europe, while guaranteeing international law. that's the question. it is important, however, that the minsk agreement, unlike the september agreement, includes the issue of implementation, so that this does not become a new opportunity for putin to buy time and thus further expand his territory of aggression. that's the politics. i am really with my heart, with my thoughts and with my prayers for the success of the mission in minsk, so as to establish lasting peace in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. we now have a mission in minsk that is successful. and i'm not going to answer hypothetical questions. the point now is to secure peace. and there is already the possibility that european governments can supply arms, as the council has decided. the only one who did is your government. there's a reason for that. we should try to secure peace, and not talk about the further consequences of minsk's failure. we want to prevent this failure. that is the task of this hour and the next. that's what we have to fight for. that seems to me to be the decisive approach. when i hear this cry from mr duda and others who do not want to give the european union any institutional rights and who are now here denouncing the rights of the european institutions, it is a measure of mendacity in an hour of need for europe, when we are facing a war that makes me sick to hear such arguments from the right and the left.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr pushkov made it very clear yesterday at the foreign affairs committee meeting that the present russian leadership has no intention of abiding by international law. to face such an aggressor, one must keep a clear strategic vision. there is no military solution, let us say, at least not in favour of ukraine. others say there might be one for putin. sorry, that's the problem. militarily, only moscow can win, not ukraine. if we want ukraine to succeed in this fight, we must rely on diplomacy - not just diplomacy, but also on reforms in the country, on energy independence and on the fight against corruption. we must strengthen and consolidate the civil society and support this in solidarity throughout europe. it's the only way we have a chance of keeping the aggressor from winning.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe's weakness is putin's strength. that is what several people have said here, and that is the reality. because we're so weak, putin can do what he does. everyone is hoping that tomorrow in minsk, perhaps, a result will come out. diplomacy is our weapon, that's what we're using. but i also ask: what if minsk is just another act in a big game and the aggression continues? what are we gonna do? we're not doing anything? i don't think that's going to work. it cannot be that ukraine's sovereignty is being undermined, that the attempt to build a modern democratic country is being made impossible. that can never and will never be accepted. ergo we must help ukraine at all levels, at all levels! these are political levels, these are economic levels. but we must also go further if necessary. i mean, we still have to keep in dialogue with russia, despite the sanctions. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the peace process in europe.
in writing. for more than a year now, the crisis in ukraine has shown that european values such as freedom, democracy and human rights are not taken for granted on our continent. we regret to note that all attempts to resolve the conflict in ukraine have so far been unsuccessful. the minsk agreements have not been implemented and the conflict in eastern ukraine has escalated in recent weeks. russia is violating the territorial integrity of ukraine and is breaking international law. we must not, however, let anything go unattended to bring about a ceasefire in eastern ukraine. we owe it to the people. i therefore welcome the new initiative by france and germany to make another attempt to bring about a diplomatic solution to the conflict. the main objective of the negotiations in minsk must be a ceasefire in eastern ukraine in order to stabilise the security situation in the region and to create the conditions for de-escalation of the conflict. it is crucial that the west continues to speak with one voice in the negotiations that follow. this is not only true of the member states of the european union, but also of the alliance between the united states of america and us in europe. it must continue as before.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me first of all thank you for this debate. the upcoming npt review conference, which will be held in new york from 27 april to 22 may, is something to which i attach a great deal of importance. it is the most important event on global non-proliferation and disarmament this year. i announced already during the hearing in this parliament in october that i intended to put in a great deal of work on this and i can confirm that i intend to participate in the review conference, in the opening session, and to address the meeting. i also believe that the role of parliament in this is crucial. if i am not mistaken, it was the case in 2010 that parliament adopted a resolution helping to shape the european union position and i think that it will be extremely good – well, this is our first chance – to have a constant dialogue so that our position is somehow a common european position, taking in the view of parliament too. let me thank you too for all those occasions where the eeas has been invited to relevant committees on this topic. it is something i appreciate very much. now, coming to this year’s review conference, there is a mixed outlook, as you know very well. there are different views on the level of implementation of the 2010 action plan, and these views are probably quite difficult, or increasingly difficult, to reconcile. i think that, in this context, it is also important not to lose sight of a couple of issues that are regional issues but still relevant to the conference itself. on one side, the ongoing negotiations with iran that the european union, as you know, is facilitating – i am personally facilitating – following a un security council resolution and which could demonstrate that a peaceful solution to a serious issue is possible and mutually profitable for all. another element that is likely to influence the outcome of the review conference is the fact that the conference on the weapons of mass destruction-free zone in the middle east, which was one of the key elements of the 2010 action plan, has not taken place yet. here let me thank the facilitator of this for his efforts – his endless efforts – and i hope that all our support can lead to the conference being convened sooner rather than later. when it comes to the disarmament pillar of the npt, there has been a growing debate, taking place mostly outside of npt meetings, on the issue of the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons. a major international discussion on this subject was recently held in vienna, organised by austria. while some want to elaborate a legal ban on nuclear weapons, others advocate a building-block approach to disarmament with step-by-step nuclear reductions, taking into account the current security environment. it is an ongoing debate. as you know the european union has different member states, with different histories, different positions, and different sensibilities we would say. but i was encouraged first of all by the fact that during the recent conference in london, the five npt nuclear-weapon states reconfirmed their commitment to achieving a world without nuclear weapons, in accordance with the goals of the npt, and made further contributions to developing the mutual confidence and transparency which is essential to making progress towards multilateral nuclear disarmament. i think that the conference – even if, as i said, we are still in the process of shaping our formal position on that – should deliver a vision first of all on how to strengthen the treaty as a whole. we are, as i said, currently preparing with our member states the common position for the conference and i think that even if the member states’ mix is complex – nuclear weapon states, nato members, neutral states – i am confident that we will achieve a common position as we have done in the past. i believe personally, but this is also the eu position, that the npt is and has to remain the cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime, as the essential foundation for the pursuit of nuclear disarmament. it is also an important element in the further development of nuclear energy applications for peaceful purposes. we, as you know, support the universalisation and the effective implementation of the npt. i believe that we will have to continue to promote a more comprehensive, balanced and substantive implementation of the action plan adopted at the 2010 npt review conference, and this action plan has been our common roadmap to this review conference. however, i believe that we will also call on all npt states parties to live up to their commitments of 2010 and to do all that we can to ensure that the conference delivers a common vision on how to implement these commitments. i know that we do not have so much time but let me quickly go into some of the details of the european union position, as it is shaping up with regard to the three npt pillars, with the caveat that the common position is not official yet and is underdeveloped. on disarmament, we have to reaffirm, i believe, that it is our commitment to pursue nuclear disarmament in accordance with article 6 of the npt and stress the need for concrete progress in this field, especially through an overall reduction in the global stockpile of nuclear weapons. we will welcome the considerable reductions made so far, taking into account the special responsibility of the states that possess the largest arsenals, and we will welcome indications of progress reported by the united states and the russian federation in implementing the new start treaty and strongly encourage them to seek further reductions in their nuclear arsenals, including strategic, non-strategic, deployed and non-deployed weapons, and in this atmosphere i guess this will be the most challenging exercise. we will welcome and encourage the nuclear-weapons states’ conferences on the follow up of the 2010 npt review conference, including confidence-building, transparency, verification activities and discussions on reporting. we will stay committed to treaty-based nuclear disarmament and arms control and stress the need to renew multilateral efforts and revitalise multilateral negotiating bodies, in particular the conference on disarmament. the ongoing stalemate, including the persistent failure to agree on a programme of work remains, i think, not only troubling but also unacceptable. i think it is time to call for the immediate commencement and early conclusion of the negotiations, in the conference on disarmament, on a treaty banning the production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices. one point to which i attach particular importance and on which i have always been active personally is the comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty (ctbt), which i believe is of crucial importance to nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. i would continue, even personally, to work for its entry into force as a top priority (obviously not only by myself but by the european union), continuing to promote this objective not only to diplomatic action but also to financial engagement. we have contributed substantially to the ctbt organisation since 2006 and i take the opportunity to thank parliament for its support for the cfsp financing provided to this end. as i said, i have been and i will stay personally engaged in the efforts made by the ctbt organisation regarding the dialogue with the annex 2 states whose ratifications are needed for the treaty to enter into force. on non-proliferation, the european union view: the international community continues to be faced with major proliferation challenges. this is very evident to us and must be addressed in a resolute way in order to maintain the credibility and the effectiveness of the npt regime. i would stress the primary responsibility of the un security council for maintenance of international peace and security, including the cases of non-compliance. i will not mention individual cases; if necessary, i could go back to some cases that members might raise in their speeches. on the peaceful use of nuclear energy: the eu will reaffirm its support for the right of all parties to the treaty to develop research, production and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, without discrimination, and in conformity with the treaty. let me at the very end – last but not least – mention nuclear security. i think that the nuclear security summit process is crucial and stays crucial. i personally followed it when i was a member of parliament myself and a minister afterwards. i think it is key to reducing the threat of nuclear terrorism, something that is still very relevant, and to securing all vulnerable nuclear material in the coming years. we are, and stay, committed to supporting the leading role played by the iaea, including through financial support provided by the european union to the nuclear security fund. it has been substantial – eur 40 million since 2004 – and for that i also have to express my gratitude to parliament for having chosen to support that financial effort. thank you very much and i am looking forward to your ideas.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not madam high representative, i thank you very much for your statement. i think we have a very broad consensus on this subject in this house. it is important that we europeans take a common position at this conference too. we are stronger together. i hope that we will reach an agreement in the negotiations with iran. so we wholeheartedly support the efforts of the 3+3 group. if we can reach an agreement with that country on this, it will have a very positive effect on the non-proliferation process as a whole. i remain very concerned about a country like north korea, which is a nuclear test ban. this country doesn't abide by it. it's not predictable. i think it is very important that we keep in close contact with china in particular in this context, in order to keep this gentleman in pyongyang in check. i am afraid that we have seen a very bad example in connection with russia and ukraine in one area - that is, in creating incentives. the 1994 budapest convention had as its central point that ukraine would give up its nuclear weapons and in return receive guarantees of its borders from the big powers, the usa, russia and the uk. the way russia is behaving in this case is of course not an incentive for a country to give up nuclear weapons. on the contrary, it has also had the effect of making some countries wonder whether it might not be a better insurance policy to acquire nuclear weapons in the first place. that can't be in our best interest. we should therefore hope that russia will return to the path of peace in europe.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i wonder why the nuclear non-proliferation treaty review conference is worth only a debate in this parliament today and not a resolution on this really vital subject. that would have been an important and necessary sign. the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons was the consequence of the us dropping atomic bombs on hiroshima and nagasaki. the threat of nuclear weapons is not a political or military tool and must never be again. yet, two decades after the end of the cold war, the earth is still littered with thousands of nuclear weapons. the civil war in ukraine must not be used as an excuse to jeopardize the treaty. on the contrary! we must discuss the role the eu should play, can play and, yes, especially wants to play. there's no denying that there are hardliners on different sides. and yet, last weekend, the five nuclear powers - china, britain, russia, the united states and france - issued a joint declaration reaffirming their commitment to nuclear disarmament and a diplomatic solution to the conflict. but it is not just here in this house that this does not seem to be of great interest. the press also barely reports on it, although it is precisely such conferences that can be a confidence-building measure at this time and would lend credibility to the desire for peace on the part of all parties. what this world needs is the strengthening of the voices of reason and a constant policy of relaxation. nuclear weapons threaten the lives of all.
member of the commission. - mr president, the joint parliamentary assembly is a unique forum for strengthening the european union’s and acp cooperation and connecting people in europe and our partner countries through their directly elected representatives. i share the view expressed by the rapporteur, mr goerens, that we have successfully managed to extend our exchanges and work beyond purely technical and administrative matters. we have indeed been using our meetings more and more strategically to discuss issues of mutual concern. discussions that we had during the last joint parliamentary assembly in strasbourg on policy coherence for development, on ebola, or on the post-2015 development agenda have been substantial. i expect the same level of engagement and input on post-cotonou negotiations. let me now move to the important recommendations made in this report to the commission. on european development fund programming, i am happy that parliament is now providing comments on edf programming documents and i am confident that this new practice will improve the effectiveness and accountability of our development policy. on economic partnership agreements (epas), i share the view that trade should support and serve development objectives. this is a vision i will pursue, working closely with trade commissioner malmström. the development objective has been the core objective of the epa process from its very beginning. it is translated into concrete provisions in the economic partnership agreements, including a great deal of asymmetry in the commitment and obligations, in measures promoting regional integration and in a number of special measures and safeguards. these provisions allow our acp partners to promote their industrial development and protect their infant industries, food security and natural resources. the european union also supports the related reform and adjustment process and helps acp countries to develop their trade capacities, enhance their competitiveness and make themselves less vulnerable to risks. epas also ensure long-term free access for all products to the eu market. this is unparalleled in any other trade arrangements and is a key for investors’ location and sourcing decisions. we have heard our developing partners say on many occasions that they want trade and investment even more than our development money. but we have also heard some of the specific concerns about the concrete potential of epas to contribute positively to trade facilitation and policy coherence for development. we would be ready to work with our partners to assess the economic partnership agreements’ functioning and implementation in order to maximise their trade and development potential. on policy coherence for development (pcd) i can only welcome the proposal that the joint parliamentary assembly should appoint two standing co-rapporteurs on pcd because it is one of the commission’s main priorities. as for parliament’s call for an explicit reference in any future agreement to non-discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity, let me remind you that a second revision of the cotonou agreement has considerably expanded the list of topics for dialogue on specific political issues of mutual concern to include traditional grounds for non-discrimination, in line with provisions by which acp countries are bound under international conventions. at the time the acp states firmly opposed including lgbti rights on this list. however, the new wording of article 8(4), taken from the wording of article 2 of the un declaration on the same subject, does not exclude the possibility of discussing lgbti rights with acp countries. the european union has regularly engaged with acp countries on human rights, including non-discrimination on lgbti issues, and we are determined to do so in the future. some honourable members have had direct experience of acp reluctance to discuss this issue. i agree with you that we must find the best way to pursue dealing with this issue and i will continue working with you to this end. this will, together with other very important issues, be part of the forthcoming public consultation process on cotonou or on the post-cotonou agreement, and i look forward to the opportunity of further engaging with parliament and with the joint parliamentary assembly.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. i also thank mr charles goerens for the overall, fairly balanced report. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. it's been mentioned before. do not misunderstand me, i am not totally against it, but i still hear what many african colleagues said at the last acp summit in strasbourg: people, we have bigger problems, understand that at last! i think we should understand that and not become alienated. otherwise, however, as coordinator of the ecr group, i share many of the points raised in the report on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i wish we could work more flexibly and faster. i have already proposed that, in addition to the three specialised committees and the election observation missions, the instrument of short-term task forces for current crises or issues be created, so that the parliamentary face of europe can be shown quickly on the ground. speaking of faces , let me tell you a little story . the acp summit was scheduled to take place in vanuatu last december. nearly 60 colleagues had applied for this. then came ebola. i have just met 15 of the 60 colleagues here in strasbourg. i think we need to show more interest in global issues, even though we have 10 parliamentary elections here in the eu this year.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to highlight two things about charles goerens, who is doing a good report. he said: 'firstly, if there were no cooperation between the eu and the acp, it would have to be invented. and secondly, it is not too early to start discussing now, to start developing strategies for how to go beyond 2020. 78 acp states and 28 eu states have a strategic majority in the united nations. i think we should always be aware of that. we have the great advantage, compared to other countries that are now approaching development policy, that are pursuing development policy, like the brics countries, that we have a common basis of trust, that we are meeting our acp partners on the basis of our european fundamental values: human rights, freedom of expression, individual rights, sexual freedom. it is an incredible opportunity for us, and we as europeans should continue to take advantage of it. i think we must also call on our member states to be more active in this area. in recent years, the member states have clearly avoided their responsibilities. we should, as parliament, we should, as the commission, call on the member states to be more active here in the acp area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mr goerens once again for his comprehensive but also honest report. 2015 is the european year of development. we should not forget that in all the debates we have here. this year we should particularly look at our relations with the african, caribbean and pacific states. the european parliament, in the form of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, has a unique platform to do this, which gives us the opportunity not only to present debates and resolutions in this house, but also to discuss the problems together with our colleagues from the acp states. and we should talk a lot more to each other, not just about each other. the fragility of democracy in many of these countries is shown by the recent case of nigeria, where elections were postponed at short notice to the disappointment of the people of that country. however, the acp-eu parliamentary assembly will only be effective if the members - and this has already been mentioned - of this parliament are also involved. but the council should also take up its responsibilities and appear when it is on the agenda. we owe this to our colleagues from the acp states. otherwise we will not be taken seriously and it will be doubted whether we are serious about dealing with their problems. presence is everything, and there is no substitute for contact.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have been a member of this congregation since 1999. i have had many debates with colleagues from the acp countries, and it is very important that we have joint debates with colleagues from these countries on an equal footing and on an equal footing and that we strive for joint solutions. this is a point that is very close to my heart. i would therefore like to raise a critical point. i've been tracking how participation has evolved over the years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i find it unacceptable that at the last meeting we had here in strasbourg there were 19 european colleagues still present to vote, when there could have been 78. i think we need to make a new commitment here. this commitment must be made personally by all concerned. it starts with the co-chair on the european side, down to the newest delegate. i expect that of everyone! it is only then that we can achieve the respect and confidence of our acp colleagues which are the preconditions for this cooperation. because we're going to have to talk very soon about how we're going to redesign this when cotonou 2020 is over. then we'll ask ourselves the question: do we continue this, or do we split it? these are very important debates, but they require trust on the part of those involved. i'd like to advertise that.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, good evening, ladies and gentlemen. the problem of female genital mutilation does not seem to be a european problem. the term gives the impression that it is a problem of african tribes and their rituals. that would be bad enough, but the problem is immigrants. so we have this heinous crime against women and girls. i would like to say this about the crimes here: anyone who wants to practice female genital mutilation as a religious practice or as anything else does not belong to our cultural circle, does not belong to us, and cannot be integrated into our society. we will not tolerate or accept genital mutilation. we don't mutilate people in our house. no men, no women, no boys and no little girls and babies. end of the line! and on the crimes in africa, let me make one point: the girls and women there need help. misereor estimates the number of women and girls affected at 157 million. and every year, two million more. many, not long enough, but many are getting help. and that's going to be unpalatable to a lot of people in this house, i mean, too many people, because they're building and maintaining enemy images. but a very large part of this aid is provided by the development agencies of the christian church, the evangelical church and the catholic church: caritas, the diakonie, misereor, missio, the german bishops' conference, the church in need. i think that needs to be said. here in parliament, one often gets the impression that christians are second-class people. if you go to church sometimes on sundays, you are very close to christian fundamentalism, and if you go every sunday, you are already a christian taliban. so let me tell you, they are christian development agencies whose work against female genital mutilation is immeasurably valuable.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. parents from different countries split up and fight over their common child. it was a terrible fight. parental rights and the welfare of the child are equally concerned and must be taken into account. the 1980 hague convention on international child abduction is an effective instrument in resolving such cases. it has one objective: legal certainty is essential in such disputes, and the convention contributes to this. it is therefore essential that the convention be extended to include other countries. it improves legal certainty in a dispute over the most valuable thing parents have, even when they separate: their children. it is gratifying that countries such as russia are also willing to join the convention. the fact that russia is involved in the debate on international child abduction and has an interest in joining the hague convention shows that the issue is important enough to overcome current policy differences between russia and the eu.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to expressly support my colleague mr wałęsa in his remarks and also in my political work in the committee on petitions i would like to refer to this problem again. the member states are responsible for custody, divorce and adoption and their application varies widely. this leads to grotesque and truly scary situations, especially in divorce cases involving inter-state marriages. i would like to ask once again for harmonization within the european union. we are harmonizing the economy, we are harmonizing money, we are harmonizing working life. we should also harmonize the rights of children in the european union. worse still, within these responsibilities of the member states there is also an opt-out. the commission notes that the danish authorities have not provided any evidence that the measure is compatible with the internal market. this also prevents the mutual extradition of abducted children. and in the uk - a colleague has also mentioned it - children are being forcibly adopted against the will of parents or close relatives, which is not possible in other member states. this is not acceptable to me. what do we need? firstly, a comprehensive information obligation in the member states and secondly, harmonization!
thank you very much, mr. glezos. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a full answer to this question. i would recommend that you contact your group chairman, mrs zimmer, who may then be able to submit such a request on behalf of your group in the conference of group chairmen, or that you collect 40 signatures from 40 members. then we can discuss whether to put this item on the agenda.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the informal meeting of heads of state or government (12 february 2015) (2014/2940 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, today’s debate on the preparation of the informal meeting of heads of states or government comes at a time full of challenges. we have just marked the first month after the brutal terrorist attacks in paris. these attacks targeted our common values – democracy, solidarity, basic freedoms, including freedom of expression, tolerance and human dignity. the shockwave has spread far beyond european borders and there has been a firm joint response – an unprecedented expression of unity and solidarity, and the firm conviction that terrorist attacks should not be tolerated. we have no time to waste. we must work on efficient measures to protect our societies and citizens from fear – from the fear of terrorist attacks, from the fear of radicalisation, and from the fear of intolerance. the informal meeting will discuss ways to strengthen further our fight against terrorism. while member states have the primary responsibility for combating terrorism, measures taken at eu level will have added value in many ways. the eu has a long-standing counter-terrorism strategy, with measures in various areas supporting member states’ counter-terrorism policies. however, recent events have shown that there is scope for stepping up our actions. in the past four weeks the council has put a lot of effort into this. all relevant ministers – justice and home affairs, foreign affairs, finance, culture and others – have worked intensely to accelerate and improve our fight against terrorism. as a result of discussions among the ministers for home affairs and justice, the riga joint statement was adopted. it outlines a further comprehensive set of measures to address the current threat: namely, prevention of radicalisation, information-sharing and cooperation between competent authorities, prevention of illegal trafficking in firearms, and the reinforcement of external borders. we expect the commission to present its communication on the eu internal security strategy by mid-april 2015 so that it can be reviewed and updated by mid-2015. also, the finance ministers discussed further steps to be taken to combat the financing of terrorism and, together with the commission, adopted a joint declaration with a view to more efficient application of the rules in the anti-money laundering package. with regard to further work on external aspects of counter-terrorism, the foreign affairs ministers agreed on strengthening engagement with third countries, swift implementation of counter-terrorism measures, a strategy on foreign terrorist fighters, and addressing the unresolved crises and conflicts that foster terrorism. the january debate in the european parliament on the fight against terrorism also contributed to the common pool of ideas. the informal meeting tomorrow will focus on three major areas: firstly, citizens’ security; secondly, preventing radicalisation and safeguarding values; and, thirdly, cooperation with international partners. the security of citizens is at the heart of our concerns. the informal meeting will discuss ways and means of implementing the existing tools more effectively or improving them. it will discuss a number of issues, ranging from information sharing, identification of terrorists and detection of their movements, to police and judicial cooperation. what is needed here is joint action by all member states, supported by the eu institutions. in this context, let me mention a crucial issue on which all the eu institutions need to proceed swiftly: the proposal on a european passenger name record (pnr) scheme. this is a complex issue and there are certain reservations, but we cannot afford to remain idle. counter-terrorism experts have converging views that we need this measure. the presidency is ready to engage in a constructive manner with the european parliament as soon as it is ready to start the discussion. we believe that the outstanding concerns on fundamental rights, including solid data-protection safeguards, could be successfully addressed while negotiating the text of the present pnr proposal. member states have a broad consensus on the need for a strong european pnr scheme: that was clearly evident during yesterday’s general affairs council meeting. in this regard, we appreciate the efforts made by mr kirkhope to revive the debate in parliament, and mr kirkhope has recently also organised a series of discussions on the subject. in particular, we welcome his intention to present a modified report to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) by the end of this month. secondly, preventing radicalisation is another key element of the fight against terrorism. we need to act jointly, not only at official level but also with civil society and the private sector. our action must be twofold: monitoring, and removing from the internet, content that promotes terrorism or violence; and also engaging in positive communication. we need to develop a positive narrative to promote our values. vocational training, job opportunities, social integration and rehabilitation can significantly contribute to the achievement of this goal. lastly, cooperation with our international partners should be reinforced. the foreign affairs council addressed this dimension on monday, and the outcome of their deliberations will serve as an input to the leaders’ discussion tomorrow. actions taken over recent weeks to fight terrorism, and further measures to be taken in the future, were discussed yesterday at the general affairs council, as i have mentioned, and delegations have concrete expectations from the informal meeting of heads of state or governments that will take place tomorrow. tomorrow’s informal meeting will also address the economic and monetary union. as you know, the president of the commission, in close cooperation with the president of the euro summit, the president of the eurogroup and the president of the european central bank, will report to the june 2015 european council on their work regarding better economic governance in the euro area. the discussion scheduled for thursday aims to feed the debate. we are looking forward to a communication from the four presidents that will give a broader assessment of the functioning of the economic and monetary union. besides the above evaluation of the measures taken, the presidency aims to foster a deeper reflection in the council on the structural reforms that are key to sustainable economic growth in the union. as the european council has reiterated on a number of occasions, any strengthening of economic governance needs to be accompanied by further steps towards stronger legitimacy and accountability. lastly, in the light of recent developments, the heads of state or government will also look at the situation on the ground at our eastern borders. yesterday you heard an update from high representative mogherini on the situation on the ground and on ongoing diplomatic efforts. later today, new talks should start in minsk. clearly we are at a crucial juncture. we expect a broad discussion at the summit on the latest developments. at this stage we need to maintain our unity, solidarity and consistency with regard to the full and comprehensive implementation of the minsk agreement by all parties. to conclude, as i have mentioned, the informal meeting of heads of state or government will address three major issues: the fight against terrorism, the economic and monetary union and the situation in ukraine. we expect the meeting will provide political impetus so that we can move forward swiftly. we expect clear orientation from the highest level. we are fully aware that tomorrow’s discussions will not be easy. however, we are hopeful that they will proceed and produce a positive and pragmatic result.
i now give the floor to mr timmermans, vice-president of the european commission, for the commission's statement.
first vice-president of the commission. - thank you, mr president, and thank you for taking the trouble to speak the language of the country next door to your home. i have the honour to present, with president juncker, the european commission's work programme for 2015. as we are all agreed, this is a programme that concentrates on the essentials. it is based on a limited number of concrete actions addressing real priorities. in total, the commission has committed itself politically to implementing 23 initiatives this year, including the european agenda on security for the period 2015-2020. meanwhile, the terrorist attacks in paris and those in belgium have placed the question of security and, in particular, the terrorist threat, at the forefront of all the media and at the centre of all the attention. the formal european council of 12 february will be an opportunity for the union to reaffirm its determination to combat all forms of terrorism and to have a wide exchange of views on the actions taken by the member states, given that they are the ones primarily responsible for the support that the european union can provide in terms of solidarity, added value and support for mutual trust. the attacks in france have caused a real shock which has shaken the whole of europe. in the face of the terrorist threat, we must act with determination to provide structural solutions to this major challenge to european society, which touches on our fundamental values. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. this in-depth reflection must address the multiple aspects of a difficult and complex question to which we must give a balanced answer, which takes into account as much the need to ensure the security of citizens as the need to defend fundamental rights and freedoms. it cannot in any case act to remit to the cause our common way of life, our freedom and our shared values, because that is what the terrorists want. it is up to us to understand better that living together must be more than just cohabitation, more than just coexistence. it is a question of knowing one another and respecting the life choices made by each one. personally, i cannot envisage a europe where certain communities such as the jewish community in britain and france have the feeling that they have no future in europe. if the jews of europe have this impression, europe will have no future. we must defend our values and our diversity, all while defending our security and our unity. our long european history has taught us that there can be no security without freedom, and no freedom without security. the worst poison we know in european history is anxiety, fear, fear. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. while security is essentially the responsibility of the member states, europe has no less an obligation to develop an element of the overall solution. there is no doubt that the more concertation and coordination there is between europeans on security matters, the better it will be and the less terrorists will be able to slip through the cracks, particularly in the application and use of the current cooperation tools. the truth is that the european anti-terrorist struggle must begin with the simple implementation of the decisions already taken. the european union has an important arsenal of european legislation and tools in the field of security. the weak point lies largely in their implementation on the ground, which is often still far from being up to the standards of what has already been decided. it should be recalled that since 1 december 2014 the commission has had the right to launch infringement procedures vis-à-vis member states which have not fully or correctly transposed the common rules in this area. we talk a lot about schengen, for example, but we often talk badly about it because schengen, ladies and gentlemen, is not the problem. but before thinking about the improvements we could make to the schengen borders code, the commission is ready to take stock, at the moment, the first step would be to exploit to the maximum the possibilities and flexibilities that exist under the current rules, for example the possibility of reintroducing border controls at internal borders in a limited and time-limited manner. we prefer to act rapidly on the basis of existing rules, which will allow us to lose ourselves in a legislative process which will last for years, with an uncertain outcome. important work has already been undertaken by the commission in collaboration with the competent authorities of the member states to facilitate the maximum exploitation of these possibilities. to conclude on this point, i do not think it would be advisable at this stage to concentrate our efforts on the modification of the current legal framework of the schengen borders code. it is also necessary that we finally make progress on the question of the single european passenger register (pnr). i believe that a motion for a resolution will be submitted to parliament after this debate, and i really want to stress that i welcome the work of parliament, which is trying to play an important role, the facilitator, to find a solution to this problem; the commission remains at the disposal of parliament and the council to help find a solution. we must strengthen the european union's intelligence and analysis capacities, in particular by creating an integrated intelligence centre on threats related to terrorism and radicalisation within europol, making best use of existing structures and further improving exchanges between member states, union agencies and the intelligence analysis centre of the external action service. it is not a question of new rules or new measures, but of establishing a certain level of confidence between the member states and the services concerned. of course, we must also concentrate our efforts on prevention, to counter the influence of radical movements on some of our citizens. it is equally indispensable for european societies to understand why young people born in our country, who are part of our society, are tempted by a nihilistic ideology which incites them to arm themselves to attack the very society of which they are members in a murderous way. it is still a question of prime importance for all of us here, on a european scale. we have the means to do this: we must have a warning network, establish a close dialogue with the representatives of religions, make an effort to create a space of tolerance which europe must provide for the existence of a common european future. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we are all, your faith, and spirit, at minsk today. we all hope that it will be possible to find a solution, or rather i feel that some, perhaps, are not, but i believe that in our great majority, we want peace in europe, we want a peaceful solution to the problems in ukraine. the european council meeting on thursday will also be an opportunity to speak about ukraine. we condemn with the greatest firmness the violence we witness daily: we urge those responsible for the recent attacks to put an end to the hostilities, which have already caused too many innocent victims. the situation in eastern ukraine cannot be solved by military means: the solution must be political and be based on respect for international law and the independence and sovereignty of ukraine. it is based on the full implementation of the minsk agreements. it is this crucial question that the german chancellor and the president of the french republic are discussing today with presidents putin and i would also like to remind you that the commission is providing humanitarian support to ukraine. my colleague christos styliamides was there recently to express the european union's solidarity with the ukrainian people. the commission will provide an additional €15 million of aid to the country this year, bringing the total amount of humanitarian aid provided by the european union and its member states since the beginning of the crisis to €92 million.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. we feel that the challenges are great challenges this week before the european council. i believe that above all, citizens want clarity on the course europe is taking to respond to these challenges. the first major issue to be discussed is the fight against terrorism. the paris terror attacks have brutally ripped us out of our christmas holiday and shocked us all. i would like to begin by expressing my gratitude and respect to the french on behalf of the epp group. the clear and united attitude with which they have faced this struggle and said 'we will not allow our values to be destroyed by terrorists' deserves all our respect. we must be self-critical. the terrorists are french, they come from other nationalities. they are, by and large, europeans. so the question of how radicalisation happens is a subject that must be addressed. we need data to fight terrorism. if data is power and influence in the world today, then the state must also be able to work with data. that is why we have always been in favour of using passenger data, of using pnr data to help in the fight against terrorism - with, of course, a high european standard of data protection. we need the data exchange. i would like to refer to what mr guy verhofstadt said in the last debate. i hope that the council will finally take action on the exchange of data between the authorities. it is easy to call for new data, but it is obviously extremely difficult to exchange existing data between countries in an orderly manner. the member states must provide that. the second big issue is ukraine. the situation is serious. we have thousands of dead, wounded, enormous destruction - we have war in europe. first of all, i want to point out that the russian propaganda that we are seeing there is incredible that we are being told that russian soldiers are on holiday there, even though the osce makes it clear that without russian supplies it would not work. minsk was never respected. and the people who are fighting for freedom and democracy in ukraine are being called fascists. this is unacceptable. we must stand up to this. i would like to thank françois hollande and angela merkel for giving diplomacy another chance. if the talks fail, europe must also be able to impose tougher sanctions. the unity of europe must not be shaken on this issue. i hope that the heads of state and government will do the same. the third major issue i want to touch on today is the question of the bailout mechanism in europe, particularly the handling of the election result in greece. everyone is underlining the respect for the greek voter today. i would like to say once again, on behalf of the epp group: does respect for the electorate mean that all the agreements reached so far can be thrown overboard? in future, should a slovak government, which may be re-elected, or a finnish government, which may be re-elected, simply throw all the concessions on payments to greece over the table? i say no! existing agreements must be respected by all. tsipras must learn that too. tsipras has simply lied to his voters. he made promises he won't be able to keep. we want tsipras to make that clear and to clarify it. even more scandalous is the coalition partner, the right-wing populist force angl. i was surprised that among other things the gue was not willing to discuss here in the european parliament that politicians who are openly anti-jewish, openly foment resentment against jews, that we obviously cannot discuss this here, because especially the communists think that a pact with these people is quite okay, just because they then come to power as communists. this is unacceptable. the question then arises: has the course been selected? i would just like to point out that antonis samaras's nea dimokratia in greece has remained almost stable. our political force has achieved almost the same result as in the last elections. 65% of the greeks did not vote for syriza. if we had not had these electoral structures in greece, we would have had a different result today. these are just numbers i'm putting out there. i would simply point out that in greece, before the elections, we had exports of plus 8%, employment growth of plus 2,6%; private consumption has increased; we had a primary surplus in the budget. antonis samaras has left a country which, after the difficulties, after the difficult pressures which the greek people had to endure, was once again on a growth course. and tsipras is destroying within a week the trust that antonis samaras has built up. we believe that our path as the epp is the right path because ireland is currently the locomotive in europe, because spain is currently the locomotive of growth and because italy and france are unfortunately god's brakes on growth in the european union. that's why the only way to grow is...
ladies and gentlemen, mr. coburn, i thought you were ill. you're back at last! i am not going to go into detail. i would ask you to allow mr weber to finish. i've already got 20 blue cards. mr weber will now have a great deal of speaking time. you're using your blue cards to extend his speech. think about whether you really want to do that. please, mr. weber, please!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i take all 20 blue cards that are called. i do not hope that answers will trigger any thought processes in colleagues, because ideologues do not listen to god in arguments, but it is worth the effort. i want to close. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the community. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe. i have only one expectation of tsipras. when mr kenny took office in ireland, the whole of europe demanded that he accept the existing programme for ireland as binding on him. when passos coelho took office in portugal, the whole eu demanded that the existing programme for portugal be accepted by him as the new head of government. our simple demand is that when tsipras takes office, the eu demands that he accept existing agreements as binding on him. no more, no less than that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to say anything. did i hear you correctly? did you just offer to rewrite the greek electoral law? and what other countries do you offer this for? (applause from the centre)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. you listened to what i said. then you've also heard that we have respect for the greek voter. we also respect the new greek prime minister as the representative of his country. i was just pointing out that if you look at the election results, 65 percent of the voters who went to the polls did not vote for syriza. that's all i said. that means that at the end of the day, many people in greece are worried today, whether it's this government or the extremists who have come to power there. you must be excited too, mr. bütikofer. (applause from the centre)
i'm not going to let you do this. you can stand up if you want to speak, you don't have to sit down. it would also be beneficial for the audience to be able to identify the member who is speaking more easily.
mr. courthouse! mr. coburn would like to ask you a question. (intercepted by saxe-coburg) no, mr coburn, not the saxon coburg. i have to say that i am not a fan of the idea of a european parliament.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mr. verhofstadt, i didn't know you were so interested in saxe-coburg. so if you want to see a living specimen from this region, it's me. i come from this former saxon-coburg region. but to come to the actual subject, the preparation of the council summit for the day after tomorrow: it is a summit which is taking place in a very special situation and which has a history. the history of the past has much to do with the fact that in recent months we have been engaged in a fierce debate on the future of the european union. this is also made clear by various examples. the question is: how do we respond to the terrorist attacks in paris, in belgium and elsewhere? is our response really the appropriate one to give? should it really focus on pnr, passenger data exchange and the like? are we really convinced that with a pnr agreement we could actually prevent terrorist attacks? is that so? mr biden himself, in response to a question for the us, admitted that they have no concrete evidence that pnr and widespread surveillance could actually help prevent terrorism, but that it was more or less about finding out who did what in the investigation. that's great. i don't think that's enough. we need to think about this. it will not surprise you that i will now naturally concentrate on the question of greece. mr weber, i would like you to listen to me, since you made a comment on this earlier. i have to tell you first of all, i understand very well -- i understand, given my own history and the breakdown and also the failure of politics -- that it's difficult for politicians to admit the failure of policies that are their own foundation. and that you then try to deviate and develop strategies, make claims, create secondary scenarios that have nothing, but nothing to do with the questions we face, and the challenges we face. the question is not whether there are any problems between countries to be solved. this is about the future of the european union. if you would just ask this question, whether the austerity policy, whether the programme of the german federal government over the years has been the right answer, whether what the eu institutions, what the troika have been practicing, whether this has led to a growing confidence in the european union and its future. we are also facing a profound crisis of democracy. and if we are not able to put the first answers together with the summit, with the eurogroup meeting, that we really understand what it is all about, then we will all share responsibility for the fact that more and more people are doubting whether this can work. and now to anel. my dear mr. weaver, i have to ask you something. there is a member of parliament who was elected to the european parliament through anel. he's a member of the ecr. i hope that you will not claim, as the epp chairman, that the ecr is an anti-semitic group. you can't be serious about that! i don't suppose that's your idea. please, in future, think about what you're saying here. let us talk about what is really necessary, what reactions should be made with regard to greece.
mr president, mr vice-president, representative of the council, ladies and gentlemen! we have discussed the fight against terrorism here quite often and have also said that we must do something urgently. i am grateful that the council and the commission have now put forward very concrete measures. i would like us to go beyond the mere talk and take concrete decisions, because i believe that the citizens are not interested in long and detailed debates about what is meaningless and nonsense, but are interested in whether we are doing something to protect the lives and bodies of people in the european union from these terrorists, and in concrete terms. i am grateful that the groups have agreed to make some progress on the question of the pnr. secondly, i think that the discussions on economic and monetary policy and stability policy, particularly in connection with greece, have been somewhat adventurous. i really have to say this. is it not normal to treat a new government the same as all previous governments? if the greek government comes here, it will have to say, just as it did in the past, to the irish government or the spanish or portuguese governments, whether it will say yes or no to the existing treaties. what's not normal about that? is it not normal to expect that someone who receives financial support and solidarity is also willing to accept that what is promised will be fulfilled? we call this the troika. you can call it anything you want. i don't care about that. but it is clear, dear mr pittella! i do not understand at all that there should be supervision, control and agreement as to whether what has been discussed is actually being observed. i am surprised that you say, mr pittella, that we should never again have to resort to austerity. in future, will you speak to those in europe who waste money? this can't be happening! that cannot be the intention you are presenting here! so i expect those who receive help to reciprocate. i would like to know how you will explain this to the italian people. should they pay for greek communists to make any election promises? i can't tell my citizens that. fairness is paramount. fairness must be applied to greeks too. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the decision whether the policy in greece was good or bad will be made by other people at some point. i 'm just saying . the development in greece has been good, it has developed further. it wasn't all good. no man has ever done that! mr pittella, i did not understand your complaint. nobody said there were great conditions. but progress is achievable. and i'm curious to see if the new government will make such progress. at the moment, what manfred weber said is true: it is going downhill and not uphill, while it is going forward in ireland, in spain, in portugal. progress is being made with this policy, which we have agreed here together. they didn't just get it from somebody.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr. leichtfried. i appreciate your point of view and i agree with it. i wonder whether the social democrats will do today what you have just said. because there is a debate - and this is also in the direction of mr reul and mr weber - whether we should spend €500 million - that is the european commission's estimate - on a system for storing passenger data, or invest that money in the chronically underfunded crossborder cooperation between police and judicial authorities under the umbrella of europol and eurojust. that's the question.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are unfortunately in the midst of a debate in which a very large coalition of symbols is emerging in the fight against terrorism. mr reul said: 'let us stop arguing about the meaning and the absurdity of this, and let us simply do it with the storage of data and passenger data'. the question that is being asked is: what really helps to combat terrorism? it's about discussing what makes sense and what's helpful. detroit, boston, quebec, toulouse, brussels, paris - all places where there have been worse, more devastating attacks recently. and in all these places, there was information about all the perpetrators. in retrospect, it becomes clear. i think we need to address this and discuss how we can equip the police and the judiciary to use the information they have. instead, you resort to the expensive means of general surveillance, put every passenger under general suspicion, and think that's it. that's not an effective security policy. that's why we can't be part of it!
i have to say, madam president, i was very disappointed by the council and commission statement which was essentially empty of substance and only touched on the important points concerning greece and ukraine. but mr weber has at least made a point. he said that mr tsipras had lied to the electorate. i can't understand that. i have the impression that mr weber is annoyed with mr tsipras precisely because mr tsipras is keeping what he promised before the election, whereas mr weber, as the chairman of the christian democrats, should perhaps answer the question of how to assess the fact that a major party has promised that germany will never have to pay for the debts of other countries, and has now been doing the opposite for five years. i am also at a loss for words on the subject of ukraine. i think it should have been made clear that the answer to russian arms supplies to the separatists cannot be american arms supplies to the ukrainian armed forces. we don't want to have a proxy war in ukraine. we need to find other and more intelligent answers to this challenge.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. vice-president timmermans said earlier that we all hope for the talks in minsk today. we shall know tomorrow when the council meets whether there have been results and what results there have been. we expect two things from the council: unity and clarity. this clarity means, first of all, that ukraine knows that it can count on our support, politically and economically, in the implementation of reforms, in the steadfastness of the country's sovereignty and integrity, and in humanitarian aid. the truth is that we are clearly saying that there will be no military solution to this conflict. the supply of arms will not help to defuse the conflict, but will do the opposite. it is also true that our aim remains the integration of russia into a pan-european political, economic and security structure. but it must be clear that this is a prerequisite for the solution of the ukraine conflict. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. let me make two requests on the sanctions. firstly, for sanctions it is not enough to extend the list of names for any ban until we have the last company head on that list, but then there must be more substantial things and economic things. i think that's part of the problem, especially when you're asking for no weapons to be delivered. the second request is that you also say which sanctions will be lifted and when, if there is substantial progress. this form of predictability is good for all concerned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. terrorism is a direct attack on our values. we must not give in to this. je suis charlie this call for tolerance and freedom must guide our actions when reviewing security measures. complaints about security gaps remain unfounded as long as the measures in place are not used effectively. new measures must meet the rule of law criteria. for large data sets, the ecj ruling on data retention has set out guidelines which must be observed. the commission must now explain what this means in practice. we need clear common standards in europe for the safe handling of data. the council must finally decide on its position on the whole data protection package. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. the commission has a number of tasks in the fields of foreign policy, development and trade. within the eu, we, the member states, must step up our efforts in the fields of education, social affairs and integration. the various forms of discrimination and exclusion must be eliminated in a sustainable way. more than ever before, we all need security, including social security, for freedom. but security measures must not continue to restrict freedom.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, madam representative of the council! today and tomorrow at the summit, the fight against terrorism, the ukraine crisis and greece will be on the agenda. the challenges are immense! i would like to say, in the light of the debate we have had today, that i believe that the most important thing is that we stick together in this european union, that we stand together. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in ukraine, but that we should not be concerned about the situation in the region. i would ask those present to convey this to the leaders who will be attending the summit tomorrow, that we are trying to keep our house together. secondly, i think we must remain consistent in our policy. consistency creates reliability, creates trust - i think, also looking outwards: we can only show strength if we are also consistent. to me, consistency means that we rely on and stick to what we've agreed to. this means that if you have agreed on the rules of the game, then these rules of the game must also apply to all countries. that brings me to the subject of greece. i am not saying that we should be afraid of the future. it's not about germany. it's about greece. the european union and the member states, and my country too, have been very much in solidarity with greece for many years. that is right, and that is how it should remain. but this cannot be a one-way street, there is only solidarity, even if there is some reciprocity. and if you agree on agreements, if you give yourself common rules of the game, then you must also stick to them! if you think you can unilaterally abandon these rules of the game, you can do so, but then, please, you must live with the consequences yourself and not blame all the other member states in the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr ropé, i am not a representative of latvia, so i cannot comment on this. i can only say that all the member states have agreed to sanctions against russia at various stages. these sanctions shall also be respected. depending on how the talks in minsk go today, further consultations and further discussions will take place. but the agreements are in place and the states are also keeping them.
in writing. the speeches by colleagues in particular showed a cross-party agreement on the consequences of a failed unity policy. the cause of this was overlooked. many colleagues have spoken about the serious consequences of austerity policies for the greek people, but no one has said that these are the logical consequences not only of the irresponsible economic, fiscal and social policies of previous athens governments, but also of a much too high euro rate for the greek economy. the disastrous political consequences of this 'peace currency' were also reflected in the discussion. some accused the greeks of living beyond their means in earlier decades. it is not only the greeks, the greens and the socialists who have been rightly wary of this interference. the fact that there was no such criticism of the internal policies of european partners before the single currency was introduced did not go unnoticed. the others complained passionately about germany's constant interference in greece's internal affairs. the fact that the constant meddling of german politicians in the internal affairs of other states is a necessary consequence of the single currency has been ignored. the afd reserves the right to name the real cause of the economic misery in the eurozone in the ep. as the example of greece clearly shows, the euro is not only causing economic disruption but is increasingly causing strife and discord in europe.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's agreement to the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of assent in the interest of the european union to gabon's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hacc). the convention is a near-exemplary solution in international law and an example of fruitful international cooperation in the protection of children. nothing is worse for a child than a break-up in the relationship of his parents. to make matters worse, sometimes the parents start a fight over the child, which always comes at the expense of the child. rarely, but unfortunately still far too often, a parent reacts with child abduction to create facts and avoid a custody battle for selfish reasons. the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction. this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's agreement to the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of consent in the interest of the european union to the accession of andorra to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hacc). the convention is a near-exemplary solution in international law and an example of fruitful international cooperation in the protection of children. nothing is worse for a child than a break-up in the relationship of his parents. to make matters worse, sometimes the parents start a fight over the child, which always comes at the expense of the child. rarely, but unfortunately still far too often, a parent reacts with child abduction to create facts and avoid a custody battle for selfish reasons. the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction. this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's agreement to the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of consent in the interest of the european union to the accession of seychelles to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hacc). the convention is a near-exemplary solution in international law and an example of fruitful international cooperation in the protection of children. nothing is worse for a child than a break-up in the relationship of his parents. to make matters worse, sometimes the parents start a fight over the child, which always comes at the expense of the child. rarely, but unfortunately still far too often, a parent reacts with child abduction to create facts and avoid a custody battle for selfish reasons. the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction. this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
mr president, i have supported this motion, this report, as well as the other seven cases, because i believe it is very good that the circle of signatories to the 1980 convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction has widened. as a member of the national government of the czech republic, i myself dealt with this issue and we ourselves, as the czech republic, joined in and widened the circle of signatory states. from my own experience, i can say that this is one of the few international treaties that works perfectly. and it's often the only tool to address international child abduction issues when a parent takes a child illegally to another country. so i am convinced that this instrument will work in practice and that today we have again extended the territory where it will be possible for eu citizens to deal with this delicate situation if their child is taken to the territory of a country that is today acceding to this convention.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am also, of course, pleased that every country is joining the hague convention, because we can simply deal with child abduction and child abuse better at international level and implement the convention more effectively in the interests of children and parents. i would just like to point out that the aim is also to help the spirit of the hague convention to make a breakthrough within the european union. we have some grotesque situations. let me give you two examples. on the one hand, denmark has signed the hague convention, but has been assured of an opt-out within the european union. this leads to the grotesque situation that child returns to canada can take place but cannot take place in austria. we've got some catching up to do. secondly, it is also a question of harmonizing the rights of adoption, parenting and care within the european union in general. for example, in britain adoptions can be made on a large scale without parental consent. we have some homework to do here. but what works internationally should also work within the european union.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's agreement to the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of consent in the interest of the european union to the accession of the russian federation to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (hacc). the convention is a near-exemplary solution in international law and an example of fruitful international cooperation in the protection of children. nothing is worse for a child than a break-up in the relationship of his parents. to make matters worse, sometimes the parents start a fight over the child, which always comes at the expense of the child. rarely, but unfortunately still far too often, a parent reacts with child abduction to create facts and avoid a custody battle for selfish reasons. the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction. this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment. i am also pleased that international cooperation with the russian federation, despite sanctions, seems to be still possible in principle.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's agreement to the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of consent in the interest of the european union to albania's accession to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (haccp). the convention is a near-exemplary solution in international law and an example of fruitful international cooperation in the protection of children. nothing is worse for a child than a break-up in the relationship of his parents. to make matters worse, sometimes the parents start a fight over the child, which always comes at the expense of the child. rarely, but unfortunately still far too often, a parent reacts with child abduction to create facts and avoid a custody battle for selfish reasons. the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction. this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's agreement to the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of consent in the interest of the european union to the accession of singapore to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (haccp). the convention is a near-exemplary solution in international law and an example of fruitful international cooperation in the protection of children. nothing is worse for a child than a break-up in the relationship of his parents. to make matters worse, sometimes the parents start a fight over the child, which always comes at the expense of the child. rarely, but unfortunately still far too often, a parent reacts with child abduction to create facts and avoid a custody battle for selfish reasons. the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction. this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's agreement to the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of consent in the interest of the european union to the accession of morocco to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (haccp). the convention is a near-exemplary solution in international law and an example of fruitful international cooperation in the protection of children. nothing is worse for a child than a break-up in the relationship of his parents. to make matters worse, sometimes the parents start a fight over the child, which always comes at the expense of the child. rarely, but unfortunately still far too often, a parent reacts with child abduction to create facts and avoid a custody battle for selfish reasons. the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction. this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
in writing. i welcome the parliament's agreement to the proposal for a council decision on the member states' declaration of consent in the interest of the european union to the accession of armenia to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction (haccp). the convention is a near-exemplary solution in international law and an example of fruitful international cooperation in the protection of children. nothing is worse for a child than a break-up in the relationship of his parents. to make matters worse, sometimes the parents start a fight over the child, which always comes at the expense of the child. rarely, but unfortunately still far too often, a parent reacts with child abduction to create facts and avoid a custody battle for selfish reasons. the hrc provides a sustainable framework to prevent and counter cross-border child abduction. this may not prevent the harm being done to the child, but it does at least offer the possibility of returning the child to his or her usual environment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report today, if you will, is the result of a fruitful dialogue with the european court of justice. there has already been a directive on this subject, which states that we have used the wrong legal basis. this has now been adapted in this report. i think that's good news for everyone. i also think it is a contribution to justice: wherever you are, you have to abide by the rules. with this justice, if everyone follows the rules of the road, comes greater safety. that's the good story. this can help to improve overall road safety. there is of course also an obligation to ourselves: parliament must then make a new directive out of this report by 6 may 2015. but i think we will be able to vote on this directive with the same consistency as we did on this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for full disclosure of cia practices because i care about europe. the united states intelligence community has tortured and abused prisoners all over the world. days of sleep deprivation, flogging and molestation are among the cia's favorite culture techniques. the majority of americans in recent polls don't think torture is that bad. germany and the united states are currently negotiating a new free trade agreement. in addition to genetically modified maize and chlorinated chicken, are the american torture industry's export hits also being negotiated in the secret ttip negotiations? will we be using musical torture in the future, for example with helene fischer songs? will the brand new waterboards made in the usa, which are already being looked forward to by many conservative politicians throughout europe, soon be available in german shops? i thank the many people present for their attention. - what?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was personally annoyed that a great deal of parliament's unanimity was lost because of disputes over minor matters. we are all against torture. we also agree that the rule of law must be upheld, especially in difficult situations, and that therefore torture must not be used even in difficult political situations. but now we come to the shortcoming. in my view, of course, at least two things should have been emphasized. firstly, it should have been more emphasized that these terrible things could have happened with the approval of the member states of the european union. so we have a little bit of a responsibility here, too. secondly, we should have appreciated the progress made in the political debate in the united states.
in writing. - the ep criticises very much the use of torture by the cia. but the publishing of us senate report is another proof that the usa is a democracy under the rule of law, able to correct its policy. therefore the epp is astonished that the socialists, liberals and greens have tabled a joint motion for a resolution with populists from the right and communists. they even refused to discuss a joint text with the epp. this is scandalous.
in writing. i welcome the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on the report of the united states senate on cia torture, but i consider it ultimately still too weak. it is quite right to condemn the cruel interrogation methods used in these illegal measures to combat terrorism. the key is a full return to the rule of law. the united states, like so many other countries, has a long way to go on this path. it is not enough to publish a report on torture which is also denigrated in important places. i want to draw a parallel with the right of self-report in german tax law. for the tax evader, self-reporting provides a bridge to return to legality. however, he is required to disclose all tax evasion. if he withholds any part of it, his self-report is invalid. i think it's right to put the same standards on the united states. it is not just torture, but also secret prisons, illegal abductions and surveillance involving the us intelligence services. the return to the side of the "good" countries, where the us should stand as a global model of a liberal democratic order of values, requires more than a partial admission of guilt.
in writing. the resolution refers to the terrorist attacks in paris, september 11 and militants in syria, iraq and libya. the implicit image of the muslim perpetrator is conveyed and hidden, that muslims are and can be victims too. on tuesday, three students at the university of north carolina were shot - all three muslims. police are investigating a hate crime but have declined to say what the motive was. why is it that crimes committed by muslims are so widely perceived in europe, but crimes committed against muslims are not? cynically speaking, after the paris murders there was a huge wave of solidarity under the slogan 'je suis charlie', but when muslims are murdered, there is hardly any public sympathy in the eu. the debate in europe has a dangerous vacuum here: muslims are always perceived as perpetrators, but never as victims. the european parliament is here called upon to have a discussion on how to counter this distorted perception. because one thing must be clear: #muslimlivesmatter.
in writing. — the greens/efa group today voted against the joint motion for resolution on anti-terrorism measures, as the resolution is sending the wrong message at the wrong time. the resolution agreed by the four bigger political groups provides a carte blanche for eu governments to scale back personal freedoms with measures that will fail to properly respond to the terrorist threat. instead of pushing for effective measures, the usual suspects who have been continually pushing for mass surveillance and data retention are using the paris attacks as an excuse to bulldoze through these measures, despite any evidence that they will prove effective in countering the terrorist threat. a coherent counter-terrorism strategy would focus on targeted surveillance of real suspects and ensuring security authorities have the means and resources to focus on specific risks and concrete suspicions, to follow any leads immediately, and to efficiently exchange information about dangerous individuals. this is what we should be trying to achieve. there is also a need to tackle radicalisation in schools and prisons. finally we are missing a call for a legal definition of profiling. stepping up mass surveillance will undermine security and is instead a victory for fundamentalists, who are combating precisely such democratic freedoms.
in writing. - the greens/efa group today voted against the joint motion for resolution on anti-terrorism measures, as the resolution is sending the wrong message at the wrong time. the resolution agreed by the 4 bigger political groups provides a carte blanche for eu governments to scale-back personal freedoms with measures that will fail to properly respond to the terrorist threat. instead of pushing for effective measures, the usual suspects who have been continually pushing for mass surveillance and data retention are using the paris attacks as an excuse to bulldoze through these measures, despite any evidence that they will prove effective in countering the terrorist threat. a coherent counter-terrorism strategy would focus on targeted surveillance of real suspects and ensuring security authorities have the means and resources to focus on specific risks and concrete suspicions, to follow any leads immediately, and to efficiently exchange information about dangerous individuals. this is what we should be trying to achieve. there is also a need to tackle radicalisation in schools and prisons. finally we are missing a call for a legal definition of profiling. stepping up mass surveillance will undermine security and is instead a victory for fundamentalists, who are combatting precisely such democratic freedoms
in writing. the european parliament resolution of 11 february 2015 on counter-terrorism measures contains many correct and important points, but unfortunately also includes a passage on so-called passenger name records in paragraph 22. i have considered whether i should reject the resolution altogether because of these and other passages. but after careful consideration i voted in favour of it because i think the light in the resolution outweighs the shadows. one important point for me was that it has so far been a parliament resolution, not a concrete legislative measure (directive or regulation). a resolution is merely symbolic and has no legal force. i would therefore like to say that i am opposed to the increasingly complete and comprehensive monitoring of travellers. i will not agree to any subsequent legislative initiatives on passenger data. because when in doubt, i choose freedom.
mr. chairman, i voted for the version of the bill that unfortunately didn't win a majority and didn't pass. in discussions with the professional public, but also with the czech ministry of agriculture, i came to the conclusion that, of course, it is necessary to protect consumer rights, but on the other hand, in addition to consumer information, it is also necessary to perceive the cost of the food price, which should be reasonable, and the bureaucratic burden that we impose on small and medium-sized producers by certain legislation. i therefore personally believe, although this is a complex issue, that it is more appropriate to opt for a path where the origin of the meat that is an ingredient of the food is indicated on the food on a voluntary basis. i am convinced, as is the czech ministry of agriculture, but also the association of czech consumers, that too much information will lead to food being more expensive than before, and that is a big problem for me.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the resolution. the compulsory labelling system is harmful to smes without helping consumers. the commission's impact assessment, which we always insist on, provides for drastic cost increases for mediumsized firms because new storage facilities would have to be built. the bureaucracy involved is really out of proportion to the benefits. the question of who is responsible for this unnecessary bureaucracy and thus for the european fatigue is something that the left in parliament in particular is beginning to accept. it is a policy of patronage which we are increasingly having to experience here, particularly from the left, in parliament. let us finally get serious about the eu focusing on the important and big issues!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against it too. that doesn't mean i'm not for transparency, and it doesn't mean i'm not for strict food regulations. but one thing annoys me in this parliament: i have worked for many years in the medium-sized business sector and i have seen how decisions have been taken here in parliament which have resulted in more bureaucracy and more costs for small businesses, and the members have always said: yes, we will decide on this now, but we must ensure that there is no more bureaucracy and no more costs. that's what's happening here. we cannot stand by and want to implement this and say at the same time: we must make sure that it does not lead to additional costs. that's going to cost us more! it is not that we have problems with food regulations or with the quality of food if we have this labelling as it should be. it is simply a matter of citizens asking us again: what are you deciding in brussels and strasbourg? what's in it for us? what kind of bureaucratic monsters have you created?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we all want healthy food. we all want traceability. i also have to say: this is also the case with processed products. i have to say i'm sorry i couldn't vote for the motion. i think the title is correct and the content is quite simple, as they say, not very helpful and not very useful. i would just like to point out to the colleagues who support the motion that the horse meat scandal we had in the european union would have happened with the implementation of these laws. because the cheater is the cheater. it doesn't matter if i can trace the horse meat back to the horse meat, it still didn't belong. i think we have to allow entrepreneurial freedom too. the supplier of regional products must also guarantee that the products are genuinely local. the producer who says that i guarantee that my products, my pigs, will be imported from the european union must also be able to make this decision in an entrepreneurial way, and the other producer who is active internationally must be able to do so internationally. a lot of red tape, little impact. that's why we need to keep talking about it.
in writing. i voted against this resolution. i believe that the mere indication of the country of origin or place of provenance of meat and meat products cannot prevent fraud, such as the recent horse meat scandal. although consumers are generally interested in a designation of origin, the majority of them are not prepared to bear the additional costs of increased administrative burden. since 2002, there have been binding rules on the various indications of origin for beef and beef products. in addition, a new regulation makes the indication of origin for unprocessed pigmeat, sheepmeat, goatmeat and poultrymeat compulsory from april 2015. it is now crucial that eu food production standards are applied effectively and that stricter rules on traceability are put in place to prevent future scandals.
in writing. i welcome in substance the european parliament's resolution of 11 february 2015 on the indication of the country of origin of meat in processed foods. the various scandals involving seasoned meat in recent years have shown that there is a lack of protection at the expense of the consumer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the food sector. because fraud always involves breaking the rules. better regulation can at least make it easier to trace and prosecute offenders, both civilly and criminally. i also think it is sensible to label meat according to its national origin. consumers can then choose based on the country of manufacture. the eu has different cultures in relation to meat, which are opposed to the union's efforts to harmonize. these cultural differences cannot be eliminated by a regulation or a directive. on a more fundamental level, i doubt that the union should have competence in the field of public health and food safety. there is no prospect of helping here from brussels, given the cultural differences mentioned above. the regulatory competence should be left to the national states and, within the national structure, preferably to the regions.
in writing. in this resolution, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the international year of the family, the european parliament should have addressed the role of the family as a non-negotiable element of development cooperation. unless the eu and its institutions, in the context of community development cooperation with the acp states, commit themselves to the universal values of the family based on marriage between a man and a woman, and to the right to life, and implement this commitment in practice on the ground, all other development cooperation efforts are laudable but largely useless.
member of the commission on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, honourable members, i am very grateful that you have added this important point to the agenda and also for suggesting a strong resolution on this matter. let me express at the outset my outrage at the brutal murder of kayla mueller, a dedicated aid worker, by isis terrorists. our thoughts are with the family, friends and colleagues of kayla mueller. let me repeat in the strongest way possible: the european union is committed to the fight against daesh (isis) and other terrorist groups which threaten regional and global stability. we must redouble global efforts to put an end to these murders and to find a political solution to the regional conflicts. only one word can describe the humanitarian situation in iraq and syria: devastation! as a result of both crises there are more than 20 million people in need of urgent humanitarian assistance. this number includes 3.8 million refugees in neighbouring countries: this is a plus of 75% compared to a year ago. the emergence of isis has complicated further the dynamics of the two crises. 3.6 million people are trapped in areas controlled by this and other armed opposition groups. access for aid workers is heavily restricted and many times becomes impossible. the continuation of our aid to those most in need is essential. showing solidarity with syria’s neighbours is a must. that is why two weeks ago i visited lebanon and jordan, together with commissioner hahn. these are the two countries which, along with turkey, have undertaken a huge burden in terms of refugees, especially taking into consideration the size of their population and the fragility of their political situation. we wanted to send a message of our ongoing strong support, especially to the most vulnerable – women, children, the elderly. let me say once again: we cannot allow a lost generation of syrian children. these are messages i repeated previously in turkey with federica mogherini and johannes hahn. these are the same message our high representative conveyed during her mission to iraq. for my part, i announced a new eur 136 million aid package to cover urgent needs in syria and neighbouring countries. this brings the total eu humanitarian funding up to eur 817 million. these messages of support were very well received. when i visited syrian refugees in lebanon, i saw at first hand the human dimension of this tragedy. i met women with six or eight children whose husbands had disappeared in syria. i met a 14-year-old boy supporting alone his mother and six brothers and sisters. these are the real faces of war. these people and more depend on our help, not only on words of sympathy but on tangible assistance. and this is precisely what we are delivering. they were very grateful for what our assistance has done to improve their living conditions, for example by upgrading the local water system to allow access to fresh water. but the painful truth is that the needs are not at all matched by the available resources. our funding also contributes to the stability of these countries and the wider region. it is in our own interest to continue to support these countries. this goes beyond humanitarian assistance. we need a comprehensive response, pulling together all european union instruments: humanitarian aid, relief, longer-term stabilisation. to that end, the commission is taking its responsibility. it agreed a eur 1 billion aid package for syria and iraq for the current year and next year as part of the joint communication which was adopted last week. this package strengthens europe’s political credibility. it shows the eu’s leadership. it will be a testimony to the eu’s commitment during the kuwait iii pledging conference in late march. we count now on our member states to match this amount. this package will be to a large extent about humanitarian assistance, recovery and stabilisation measures. but this alone will not put an end to the conflict. both crises require a political solution. there is a need for measures addressing the root causes of the conflict. that is why the communication includes counter-radicalisation and counter-terrorism measures. this is why education is an important component of the allocated funding. the barbaric murder of innocent people by isis and the brutal attacks in paris last month further stress the need for a narrative to prevent and counter violent extremism and to counter terrorism. such measures have been included in the communication. most of all, we should continue to advocate the respect of international humanitarian law and the humanitarian principles, and the protection of civilians and relief workers. these are our common universal values. they guide our work and enable humanitarian workers to save lives. we will need your support to achieve our goals. and we must work together to succeed.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for the great efforts you are making to deal with the humanitarian catastrophe in syria and iraq. i was in baghdad and erbil a few days ago, and i've been in refugee camps, and i think i have a sense of what's going on there. when i see what is happening in syria and iraq, when i see what is happening in lebanon and jordan, where the foreign affairs committee will be going on monday, in the refugee camps or with the refugees in a country like lebanon, which has 1.3 million refugees out of a population of 4 million, we should also do some calculations in our cities to see what this would mean. i think you have our full support. but i think we should also make clear what's going on politically there. we have rarely, if ever, in my lifetime, had to deal with a violent group that has no interest in negotiating a solution, but says everything and nothing and mercilessly exterminates anyone who does not agree with them - not only christians and yazidis, but also muslims who do not agree with them. it is, i think, a necessity that we remind many islamic states to finally unite here and organize the proxy war that tehran and riyadh are waging in the region, and to confront the misconduct of our nato partner turkey in some areas, and that we try to form an alliance here to fight this violent sect that is inhuman. i believe that we as the european union, that we as the free world, have to take that responsibility. i don't think the 60 coalition partners can do this alone. we must demand the immediate responsibility of our neighbours - from turkey to qatar, from tehran to riyadh - to fulfil their obligations here, and thus prevent this train of extermination by daesh.
i have to say, madam president, our colleague mr couso is right that without the previous policy of western intervention, the islamic state would not exist in this form at all. and this is not just the war against iraq, but also the intervention in libya and the action in syria, which has contributed significantly to the strengthening of radical islamist forces. the repressive repression of sunnis by the shiite government in iraq has also contributed significantly to the strengthening of is. he must be put under pressure, as must those western allies who are massively supporting radical islamist forces - first and foremost turkey and the gulf states. what we also need now is finally adequate care for the refugees, especially at the turkish-syrian border, the opening of a humanitarian corridor and a comprehensive reconstruction programme, as well as an immediate programme for the removal of mines. i would remind mr tannock that it was not only the peshmerga fighters but also the fighters close to the pkk, and especially the fighters, who saved the yazidis and liberated kobane.
i have to say, madam president, the islamic state is responsible for terrible human rights violations in syria and iraq. the situation has been further exacerbated by the atrocities committed by is. however, it would be wrong to reduce the causes of the current crisis in the region to is alone. the assad regime continues to use the utmost brutality against its own civilian population. other armed groups and pro-government militias in syria and iraq are also responsible for atrocities. the international community must make clear to those responsible on all sides that they will be held accountable for their crimes. i am concerned that the eu regional strategy on counter-terrorism is too vague, especially when it comes to calling for human rights principles in cooperation with states in the region. the human rights benchmarks mentioned above must be clearly defined. it must be made clear that breaches of benchmarks will have consequences for cooperation. if we do not demand that counter-terrorism measures respect human rights standards, the mistakes of the past will undoubtedly be repeated.
i have to say, madam president, in january i was in iraqi kurdistan with colleagues from alde and the s&d group. if i have understood anything there, it is that we europeans have a duty to support the victims of the daesh fascists. this region has 5.3 million people, and in just a few months, two million refugees have joined them, mostly minorities from iraq, who now live in tent cities or on the streets. the children are the most at risk. 5,000 yazidi women and children were kidnapped, 2,000 men were murdered. the yazidis are experiencing another genocide; 2,000 years of history to be erased. what we need now are really clear messages. we need international protection for the religious communities and minorities in iraq. we need money for the refugee camps and schools for the children, which are not even there at the moment. we need financial programmes, programmes to rebuild the villages of the yazidis, the shabak and other minorities, including christians. we need support for the kidnapped women. let me end with a word from the bishop of erbil, who said: help us, make it possible for us to stay in iraq, let us make peace with the sunnis!
i have to say, madam president, the terrorist organisation islamic state is an existential threat to the people of syria and iraq and beyond the region. the inhumanity of the terrorists has created a hardly conceivable distress. the funds available so far are not sufficient. i therefore particularly welcome the announcement by the high representative to further increase eu aid. it is good and important that mrs mogherini has presented us with an eu strategy for the region. the eu and its member states must act together. and we need to develop a comprehensive approach that involves the whole region. in syria, the assad regime is still in power, and its brutal repression has caused the civil war. russia must be involved in the diplomatic efforts to resolve the conflict. because russia has actively supported assad and still holds its protective hand over the regime.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i welcome the fact that the foreign affairs council is dealing with the situation in yemen. the conclusions contain key demands. the house arrest imposed by the houthi rebels on the outgoing president and members of his cabinet is unacceptable. it is now crucial to step up efforts to establish a political dialogue, because only negotiations can bring about a lasting solution. it is necessary to involve all relevant actors. however, the council's conclusions on the failure of the transition process fail to identify a central cause, namely the impunity that has prevailed for years. it is a major contributor to the instability of yemen and must therefore be identified as a central cause of the conflict. several people died in the 2011 and 2012 protests in yemen, when former president salih handed over power to vice president hadi. in return, salih was granted full immunity from prosecution for crimes committed during his years in power. hadi ordered the establishment of a commission of inquiry into human rights abuses committed during the uprisings, but it was never established. as a consequence of the absolute impunity, salih and his supporters have continued to exercise considerable influence and thus hindered the transition process. the eu is therefore doing what is important now, to take up these reform initiatives and to support the un in doing so.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the rule of law and democracy are the foundations of the eu, and those who shake them shake the european union. respect for european values is a legal obligation for all eu member states, not just when they implement eu law, but always. however, these values are often disregarded, sometimes systematically. the lack of independence of the judiciary, the media, insufficient rights for the parliamentary opposition, incitement against or exclusion of minorities are just a few examples. we europeans cannot stand by and watch fundamental values being disregarded in this way. the european parliament has therefore called on several occasions for an independent expert committee to monitor fundamental rights in all eu countries, free from political influence. neither the council nor the commission have so far been able to present convincing concepts. the recent annual lunches of the member states on rule of law issues are certainly a good start, but they are not enough and, above all, they are not a politically neutral and regular review of all member states. the framework for the protection of the rule of law proposed by the commission also seems to be only on paper so far. the european parliament should be kept regularly informed of the measures taken. the commission has not yet done so, either because nothing has happened or because parliament has not been informed. let me summarize . after all the fundamental rights debates of recent years, the council and the commission are now approaching the problem in triple steps. okay, but it's not enough. we need the willingness of all member states and the commission to openly identify systematic violations of fundamental rights and, if necessary, to impose sanctions. this is our responsibility as representatives of a union of values.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome the council's decision to establish a political dialogue to protect fundamental values and the rule of law, and also the commission's procedure to counter systemic violations of fundamental values and the rule of law. both initiatives are a step in the right direction. the european union is not just a single internal market, it is based on common values. and the european union must be a strong advocate of respect for the fundamental values of europe. it's a question of your own credibility. only those who keep their own house in order can be credible to others. that is why we europeans must not give discounts on this matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. our countries are now so closely linked that national policy is inevitably part of european domestic policy. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a discussion in the council about once a year, and then probably behind closed doors is simply not enough. the council and the commission should take a closer look at parliament's proposal. it is about the establishment of a copenhagen mechanism, that is, a mechanism which regularly monitors the respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law in all member states, by independent experts and on the basis of objective data and recognised indicators. we need a real core value tüv. the fundamental rights agency could also make an important contribution to this.
first vice-president of the commission. - madam president, i will try and react to some of the remarks that were made. first of all, the principle. the principle is this: throughout our history we have learned that democracy alone is not a guarantee for human rights and the rule of law. that is why we have a tripod – democracy, rule of law, human rights. one cannot take away the value of the other. when i express my reservations or my rejection of something that was once described as ‘illiberal democracy’, i just want to say that you cannot use the argument of a democratic majority – even if it is a two-thirds majority – to weaken the rules based on the rule of law or human rights. you cannot use two-thirds or even more of a political majority through democratic votes to weaken human rights in a member state. this is one of the fundamental principles upon which this union is built, and this applies to every single member state. you cannot say that this is interference in our internal affairs. nobody forced any member state to sign and ratify the lisbon treaty. nobody forced any member state to sign and ratify the charter. but if you do, and you ratify it, it is national law, so it is by your own national law that you will be held accountable, not any other rule. so the principle will have to remain that, if we look at the situation in our member states, we will have to look at all three in balance: democracy, rule of law and human rights. you cannot separate the three. secondly, i think that ms in ’t veld’s reasoning is seriously flawed on two levels. the first level of flawed reasoning is this: because the rule of law, human rights, etc. are at least as important as economic cooperation in europe, let us use the way we look at economic cooperation as a model for how we look at human rights. that is flawed. you cannot create a mechanism which is applicable in economies, such as budget deficit or the level of state debt expressed in percentages, and apply it to issues of human rights and the rule of law. that does not work. it would be a tremendous loss of energy and loss of focus on the real issues if we were to embark on such a mechanism. the second reason why i think this is flawed reasoning is that this commission has been in its term of office for three months. the mechanism introduced by the council was in december. we are still in the beginnings of trying to make the system we have work. give it a chance. i think it is unfair already to say ‘well, whatever you have, i do not believe in it; i want my own new toy, which is a new mechanism which compares to the growth and stability pact’. i think it is flawed on those two levels. i would like to say to those of you – especially to two greek members of the european parliament (and i will be addressing you in english because i do not speak greek) – as i said before, to be an esm mechanism is the sovereign decision of the state concerned, and the responsibility then resides with that state to make sure it is applied in accordance with eu law. i would have welcomed it if those who raised the issue of human rights in this context had also distanced themselves from expressions such as ‘we all know that jews do not pay taxes’ or homophobic expressions that we have also heard in that context. that is also the rule of law. please be clear about that. (interjection from mr marias, a greek member: ‘this does not apply to me!’) this does not apply to you, sir; it does not apply to your colleague in any sense. but we all have a responsibility if these things happen in our member state – in the union – to speak out against it. there is nothing that will prohibit you from speaking (interjection from mr marias) thank you, sir. as far as it concerns you, i am happy to hear that. but i did hear from the independent greeks utterances to that effect, sir, and you will not be able to dispute that, i am afraid. in general terms, if we really want to improve the situation of the rule of law, we all need to speak out within the responsibilities we have, and if there is a call for an independent mechanism, in that sense the commission is an independent mechanism and we will look at the situation in member states, take member states to task if it is on issues such as freedom of the press, the independence of the judiciary, the position of ngos or any other issue related to the rule of law. you have me on your side. i am strongly committed to this, but please let us try first to make the mechanisms we have effective before we start talking about new mechanisms.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, i have listened carefully to the range of views expressed during the course of this debate. as i said at the outset, the eu is not only based on respect for fundamental rights, it is also founded on the rule of law. all member states must ensure that their domestic order respects this key principle. the political dialogue established in december 2014, by means of the general affairs council conclusions on ensuring respect for the rule of law, reaffirms the commitment of member states to safeguarding this essential element of our democracies. i am therefore convinced that the new dialogue will help us to ensure that the rule of law will continue to be a commonly shared objective of this union. the first vice-president has mentioned eu accession to the european convention on human rights. on 18 december 2014 the ecj opinion put the eu in the spotlight. we look forward to the proposal from the commission on the way forward. the council remains firm in its commitment and its opinion that accession is an obligation and not an option. it is remarkable that we have heard the call to create a new european mechanism for human rights monitoring here in strasbourg, the city hosting a dozen various monitoring mechanisms. i agree with the first vice-president that we should carefully assess the potential provided by the mechanisms which already exist. the tools are there. we simply need to learn how to use them. the council believes that political dialogue has potential if used in compliance with the principles outlined in last december’s conclusions. this is where the added value lies as opposed to yet another monitoring mechanism. i am sure that the colloquy announced by mr timmermans will produce new ideas and recommendations. we look forward to it and to our further cooperation with the commission and parliament.
president-in-office of the council. - madam president, first of all i would like to express my deepest sadness and condolences to the families of the migrants who died of hypothermia on board italian coastguard vessels last monday. unfortunately, we learned this morning that there were two other boats which sailed from libyan shores with around 300 migrants, and that only a few have survived. i also wish to express our solidarity with the italian authorities, which saved 106 people in the middle of the night under extreme weather conditions. however, i do not think this tragic loss of life should hide the efforts made by member states, frontex and the union. probably we should do more and better. for this reason i thank parliament for the opportunity today to discuss the way forward for two key union players: the european asylum support office (easo) and frontex. in the resolution adopted by parliament on 17 december 2014, it rightly calls for a review of our migration policy and sets out the elements that should be part of an eu holistic approach. as the justice and home affairs council noted last october, the challenge linked to increasing migratory flows and the shifting routes of access to the eu – also as a consequence of measures taken at national level – needs to be addressed with common actions. this is even more important as these migratory flows do not only affect countries on the front line but europe as a whole, also due to the large secondary movements taking place. in this context, agencies like easo and frontex have a key role to play. on the initiative of the presidency, increased migratory pressure was recently discussed at the informal jha ministerial meeting in riga. so let me share with you some ideas for making full use of the capabilities of frontex and easo. starting with easo, in june 2014 the european council made it clear that in the coming years the focus should be on consolidating the common european asylum system. with that focus in mind, the council shares the wish of this assembly that easo needs to play a reinforced role in supporting practical cooperation, in particular by promoting the uniform application of the asylum acquis through practical and technical support. action on migration and asylum within the eu must be complemented with an external dimension. in its resolution, parliament rightly points out that external action should be part of an overall strategy in coordination with third countries. given the volatile situation in the eu’s neighbourhood, the eu must set up cooperation with third countries. easo can provide support to strengthen asylum and reception capacity, especially in middle eastern and north african countries. it also facilitates resettlement and support for the implementation of regional protection and development programmes. in doing so, easo should work in close cooperation with unhcr and the international organisation for migration. furthermore, given the high migratory and asylum influx, there will be a continued need for practical support to member states subject to particular pressure. this will require easo to provide the necessary operational support, for instance by coordinating asylum support teams. by providing such support, easo puts intra-eu solidarity into practice. finally, easo should develop further as a centre of expertise in the field of asylum. by strengthening easo’s information and analysis support, the eu and its member states will be better placed to address future migratory inflow. in particular, easo has to further develop the mechanism for early warning, preparedness and crisis management: a new task assigned to it by the dublin iii regulation. with this expertise, easo can also develop innovative solidarity tools for coping with situations of particular pressure. an example is the pilot project on supported processing of asylum applications. this pilot enhances mutual trust among member state authorities, which is essential for considering future steps in the eu asylum policy. now turning to frontex, since its establishment in 2005 the agency has made a major contribution to the management of external borders. it has gradually increased its operational support to member states and has taken a leading role in providing risk analysis. its model of joint operations has also been successfully used by member states, and its training activities have contributed to building a common border-guard culture across europe. those achievements have led the co-legislators to agree to widen and reinforce the mandate of the agency and its capacities by amending the frontex regulation in 2011 and by investing the agency with the role of central hub of the new european border surveillance system, eurosur. i would also like to recall its potential role in the framework of the new schengen evaluation mechanism. what more can be done by frontex, in particular to support member states in the mediterranean? member states remain responsible for the control and surveillance of their external borders, and frontex only has a coordinating role in terms of eu operational cooperation. thus we should in the first place ask the member states concerned what their specific needs are and what is the real added value of the agency’s operational support that can be achieved. frontex could then provide its support by organising more targeted joint operations, connecting national priorities and eu objectives, strengthening the spirit of operational solidarity, assisting with specialised capacities and contributing to building national capacities. in the current situation, it appears imperative that frontex increase its reactivity towards the rapid evolution in migration flows, making full use of the eurosur system, including the provisions of inter-agency cooperation. because the roots of migration are far away from the eu’s borders, it is absolutely necessary to enhance cooperation with countries of origin and transit. in that regard, frontex has the possibility of deploying its own immigration liaison officers, who could become an information hub in key third countries. frontex could also help third countries to manage their borders in a more secure way, in accordance with international law standards, by providing technical assistance and promoting regional cooperation on borders. in the context of the long-term development of frontex, the european council in its june 2014 conclusions indicated that ‘the possibility of setting up a european system of border guards to enhance the control and surveillance capabilities at our external borders should be studied’. the relevant working party within the council has discussed the study carried out for the commission on the feasibility of a european system of border guards. it now awaits the external evaluation commissioned by the frontex management board as well as possible further action by the commission. both easo and frontex have managed to build up organisations capable of delivering results. easo’s support improves the quality of national asylum systems. this brings us closer to the ideal of a common european asylum system in which applications for international protection are treated in the same manner irrespective of where in the eu they are lodged. by delivering operational support to member states, frontex strengthens the management of the eu’s external borders. in the light of these achievements, the council commends easo and frontex for the results obtained over the past years and encourages them to continue supporting practical cooperation in the eu in the years to come.
first vice-president of the commission. - madam president, when i heard this morning that the representative of unhcr in lampedusa said that possibly more than three hundred people had died in the last couple of days trying to save their lives by crossing the mediterranean i thought, do we still have words to express what we feel when these things happen? are our senses becoming numb, are we becoming involuntarily indifferent to what is happening? my reaction to that is we can never let that happen. we can never become indifferent to that level of human suffering and we will always be under an obligation to try to find a solution even though a solution will have to be comprehensive and will not only be controlling our borders in a more efficient way. it will always have to entail taking away the reasons why people feel they need to flee, knowing all too well that they risk dying on a boat somewhere between africa or the arab world and europe. the price that people are prepared to pay is so high that i think we need to refocus on our obligation also to take away the reason why people feel the need to flee. at the same time i think it is necessary that we discuss the way forward for the european external borders agency frontex and the european asylum support office (easo). we are confronted with a twofold challenge. internally the common european asylum system must be implemented in a coherent and effective way by all participating member states and associated countries. externally we are confronted with the highest migratory pressures at the eu external borders since the 1990s and all eu member states are affected. the time is gone that we could just leave that problem in the hands of a few member states and ignore it. easo and frontex will have a prominent role in the implementation of the eu agenda on migration which is currently developed as announced in the commission work programme for 2015. since they were established both agencies have faced the increasing challenge of supporting member states, especially those with high migratory pressures, while having limited resources at their disposal. the commission is very grateful for the support provided by the european parliament and the council in the development of both agencies and for ensuring they have the necessary funding. the management of migratory flows to the eu, including the protection of refugees, requires close collaboration both at policy level where the eu institutions operate, and in terms of practical cooperation, implementation and support from easo and frontex. the establishment of close and well-functioning practical cooperation and the continuous exchange of best practices is of utmost importance to build mutual trust between member states and between the member states and the eu. here the agencies are playing a key role. let me now say a few words about each agency in particular. concerning easo, the consolidation and implementation of the common european asylum system has the highest priority for the commission in the coming years. easo will continue to play an important role in this endeavour. it will help improve the quality of asylum decision-making and harmonise practices across the eu, by monitoring the quality of asylum decisions and ensuring that member states are able to access up-to-date country of origin information to assist them in their assessments. easo further needs to contribute to enhancing the capacity of national asylum systems with training and exchanges of best practices between the member states. with an unstable geopolitical environment and evolving threats, easo is playing and will play an important role in crisis management; for example, it played a useful part in the taskforce mediterranean. our objectives cannot be successfully met without further engaging third countries and better combining our external policy instruments. in that context, easo’s external activities are part of a broad range of eu external relations instruments. on frontex, firstly i should stress it has only a supporting function in coordinating operational cooperation between the member states, especially in support of the requesting member states facing the highest migratory pressure. frontex devotes its resources to the hotspots and shifts those resources around as pressure shifts from one section of the external border to another. this fire brigade role is important for emergency support but it cannot be the only function of the agency. frontex needs also to provide structural support to all member states to help them better control all external borders of the eu. examples are training of border guards and developing tools such as eurosur which contribute to saving lives at sea. since the last revision of the frontex mandate in 2011, great progress has been made regarding fully respecting fundamental rights during frontex coordinated joint operations. a code of conduct has been established. all offices participating in joint operations are obliged to have the appropriate training concerning the rights of apprehended persons and their access to asylum. furthermore, where there is proof of the violation of fundamental rights the executive director of the agency can suspend or terminate the ongoing joint operation. in line with the respective mandates of the agencies, the cooperation between europol and frontex is ongoing and will be further enhanced in the near future, especially regarding the common fight against the use of ghost ships to smuggle persons into the eu. here, i think, a number of very, very cynical criminals prey on people in desperate situations and they need to be tackled. the agency launched an external evaluation in 2014 which covers all of these points. it is expected to be ready by the summer of this year. a study on the feasibility of a system of european border guards has also been carried out for the commission by an external contractor. we have made the study public. based on the findings of these two studies the commission intends to initiate a debate on how to further strengthen the agency which will have an important role to play in the coming years. i look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i welcome the presidency of the council very warmly and i am very pleased that the vice-president of the european commission - you, mr timmermans - is here, because we did not want to have this subject so topical. we did not want to be in a situation where hundreds of people - whose exact number we cannot even verify, we do not know exactly - were drowned in the mediterranean sea, and who showed us what limits we had reached. i would therefore like to ask the following questions: frontex and easo urgently need support in building up their structures, both in terms of personnel and technical resources and in the speed of the subcontracting of expert staff from the member states. i would ask the commission very sincerely to take this wish into account in the next budgetary negotiations, because otherwise these agencies will really be reaching the limits of what they can do. i would also like to thank both agencies very much for the active and intensive work they are doing. secondly, i wonder whether we do not need something like a common military action on the high seas, to save lives on the one hand, but also to push back the traffickers on the other, and also other forms of cooperation with third countries. because if is now controls parts of libyan ports and forces people onto boats that they definitely cannot get on, but must drown miserably, then this is an untenable situation that frontex and easo cannot change; we need other instruments which are ultimately foreign policy. and we must also urgently step up the fight against traffickers in human beings, and in doing so, strengthen europol's tools to deal with them.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr president, you said that europe must not allow such tragedies to happen. how many times have we heard that around here? it is not since lampedusa a year and a half ago that people have been dying in the mediterranean. and many people die - 300 people in these days alone. who knows, maybe more. but instead of finally looking for a solution, the interior ministers are still talking about the same thing: more money for frontex, more border control, more fortress europe. but that is the wrong answer to the crisis we are in. we don't need more closure, we don't need more surveillance. what we need instead is a european response to the maritime rescue crisis we have. we need a european mare nostrum, and we need to have a european mare nostrum. triton is not helping us; it's a defense program. we need a european sea rescue programme! mr. vice president, where does that leave us? criminal traffickers must be put to work. we must fight them, but not the refugees. and if we fight traffickers alone, we're putting refugees into a vicious circle. because if we lock ourselves off, if we fight the smugglers, then refugees have to take other, more dangerous routes. the only way we can change that is to finally create legal, safe pathways for refugees. we need to open the ferries for the refugees so they don't have to go on small rubber boats anymore. that is what we must do, europe! we need answers from the commission, but also from the member states, which are doing far too little at the moment, neither in resettlement nor in accepting refugees. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think the appropriate response to trafficking is to take away their business base. what that means is that refugees have other options, that they have legal, safe access, that we don't force them to go on the boats and risk their lives after they've just fled war and persecution. we need more resettlement, we need legal entry for syrian refugees, for example, but not only. we need humanitarian visas, we need escape corridors. all these are possibilities that are already possible with the eu acquis. we shouldn't pretend we don't have the answers to that. i am sure that this is not the answer to everything, but it is the answer to many things that we can do now, including here in the european parliament. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – we have a very clear role for refugees. we have the geneva convention and indeed, as i said, we should have a proper way for them to enter. we need to have a european asylum system but – i agree – we also need to have a way for people who flee for economic reasons, who are looking for a better future – because that is also something europe is about, we want to create a better future for ourselves. other people also want to have a part of this better future but we do not have any possibilities for migrants to come here. this needs to change, and here it is the member states which need to open up to allow legal migration to the european union. they should not block things like the seasonal workers directive and we also need to reform the blue card to make it more open for people.
i have to say, madam president, in view of the major crises in africa and the middle east, we are faced with a continuing high level of migration to europe. the un has just estimated that there are some 52 million people on the run worldwide. most of them are destined for germany. we must deal with both asylum seekers and economic refugees. this separation is difficult because many economic refugees destroy their documents to protect themselves from deportation. the debate on this issue is poisoned because the mainstream in politics supports immigration and often enough even legally protects rejected migrants from deportation. we must finally develop a concept in the eu that sends a clear signal to the outside world that economic refugees will not be tolerated and that people without documents will be expelled as soon as possible. the resulting smuggling crime - which has been spreading unhindered for years and is always finding new ways - must not lead to the development of an industry on the european side that benefits from illegal migration. at the same time, the eu must ensure that asylum seekers are distributed more fairly. it is not possible that germany is taking in more asylum seekers than all the mediterranean countries combined.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. since i joined this house, we have been talking about the great work that mare nostrum has done. but at the same time we are also talking about the fact that mare nostrum ran out of funds last november. but nothing has really happened since then. matteo renzi said in his inaugural speech here in the house that we can only combat migration if we tackle the causes of migration. the causes of migration have not been discussed in this house, and they still are not, but how we can continue to bring refugees to europe. so you have to make a choice. frontex has done great things in the past. frontex was proud of the success of operations hera, poseidon and hermes, which had reduced migration by 60 to 90%. now we have mare nostrum the result: a 131% increase in migration numbers. but now there is no money for mare nostrum. what's going on? obviously, no one told the poverty refugees that there was no money and no rescue coming. they're getting on the ships. they continue to be taken out by human traffickers in the hope that someone will come to their rescue. if you say a, you have to say b. either you lead frontex to the real task of securing the borders; but if you want to continue mare nostrum, you must also provide the means to do so.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. frontex is the ineffective attempt to alleviate the symptoms of a failed asylum and migration policy in europe. i make a distinction between asylum and migration policy. europeans are partly responsible for the crisis in the middle east and the breakdown of order in north africa in asylum policy. we have a responsibility to the asylum seekers to ensure safe access to europe, not only for young men but also for the most vulnerable refugees, the elderly, women and children, for whom the journey is unfortunately far too difficult today. in migration, we have clear rules to set. we must therefore draw up an immigration law so that everyone who wants to come to europe can be sure that he has the right to come to us and that he is welcome here, so that hundreds of thousands of people are not deported after lengthy procedures and risk their lives in vain. europe has no concept, and thousands are paying with their lives. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
president-in-office of the council. - mr president, the issue of access to medicines is a very emotional one. each and every one of us has a story to tell about his or her own experience. as we all agree, access for patients to medicines that efficiently treat illness is an important issue that must be addressed both at national and eu level. it involves several aspects, namely: availability – meaning that new medicines are developed or existing products are adapted; also accessibility – bringing the products to patients who need them. it is also about affordability – ensuring that patients, healthcare providers and governments can afford the products; and lastly, ensuring quality so that the medicinal products work as intended and are efficient and safe. in terms of availability of medicines, a lot of emphasis has been put on research and development, especially of innovative medicines. eu pharmaceutical legislation aims at safeguarding public health whilst ensuring timely access of medicines to the market for the benefit of patients. over the years, several mechanisms were built into the legislation to facilitate innovation and timely access of patients to innovative medicines. they include a centralised procedure for the authorisation of medicines, support to smes (through fee reduction or deferment and administrative assistance), and regulatory data protection incentives. additional incentives were introduced by specific legislation in order to promote research and development of paediatrics and orphan medicinal products. these include 10-year market exclusivity for orphan medicines. the recently-adopted regulation on clinical trials (agreed by the council and the european parliament in december 2013 and to be applicable as of may 2016) is expected to foster more clinical research in europe. it will also promote the development of better medicines by facilitating the authorisation of clinical trials conducted at the same time in several member states. a concrete example of a european mechanism to support research into innovative medicines is the innovative medicines initiative, a joint undertaking between the eu and the pharmaceutical industry association efpia. it is europe’s largest public-private initiative aiming to speed up the development of better and safer medicines for patients. this initiative will continue to be co-financed from the horizon 2020 programme. secondly, to tackle the accessibility of medicines – that is, making authorised products available to patients in need – european legislation already provides for mechanisms allowing marketing authorisation of medicinal products on the basis of less comprehensive data in a variety of special circumstances where there is sufficient justification. such mechanisms include conditional marketing authorisation and authorisation under exceptional circumstances. it also includes accelerated scientific review, compassionate use programmes, or adaptive licensing. despite the fact that the existing system provides innovative, safe and efficient medicines for patients, some challenges still remain, as patients are demanding faster availability of promising new therapies at affordable prices. in order to maximise the potential of existing eu regulatory tools, the council invited the member states, in cooperation with the commission, to discuss how to make even better use of these tools. thirdly, the problem of the affordability of medicines for european patients and member states’ health system budgets has been addressed by the council on several occasions in recent months. at the epsco council meeting in june 2014, where the council adopted conclusions on the economic crisis and health care, the council recognised the need for cooperation among member states through, inter alia, sharing information on strategies to effectively manage pharmaceutical and medical device expenditure while ensuring equitable access to effective medicines within sustainable national health care systems. work should also continue on issues related to affordable pricing, the use of generic medicines, orphan medicines, medical devices and small markets. at the same council meeting, a specific problem of the high price for the hepatitis c medicine sovaldi from the us company gilead was raised, at the initiative of the french government. this resulted in exchanges of information between member states with the objective of pushing down prices. the problem was further discussed by health ministers at their informal meeting in milan in september 2014. ministers agreed that, while the pricing of medicinal products is the exclusive competence of member states, more systematic and structured exchange of information would be beneficial to ensure greater transparency. they also stressed the need for greater use of hta (health technology assessment) to ensure the efficiency of new medicines. recently, at its december 2014 meeting, the council adopted conclusions on innovation for the benefit of patients, in which it invited member states and the commission to deepen work in several areas, namely to explore opportunities for exchange of information between competent bodies in relation to the ‘life cycle approach’ for innovative medicinal products. the council also invited them: to implement the health technology assessment (hta) strategy adopted recently by the hta network; to increase effective sharing of information on prices and expenditures on medicinal products – such a measure should contribute to greater transparency, while respecting the competence of member states for financing their health systems, including reimbursement of medicinal products; and to increase transparency from all relevant actors – including industry – that could contribute to increased availability and accessibility of innovative products. the presidency will work on the implementation of the council conclusions in the coming months. the council also notes with satisfaction the recent creation of the expert group on safe and timely access to medicines for patients under the auspices of the pharmaceutical committee of the commission, which recently started work. it is clear that we will have to continue our discussions about how we can ensure the best possible quality of medical treatment to our citizens – old and young, rich and poor – all of our citizens.
member of the commission. - mr president, i am here today on behalf of vice-president jyrki katainen. in september of last year, here in parliament, the commission made a declaration on access to lifesaving medicines. on that occasion the commission expressed its concern regarding the accessibility of medicines for patients and stressed its commitment to support member states in addressing this key challenge. since then we have, of course, had a change of commission. i can assure you, however, that the new commission maintains this position and continues to uphold the principle that medicines are a special case, that is to say they are not goods like any others. in december 2014, health ministers adopted a conclusion on innovation for the benefit of patients, calling for action to foster better access to medicines. the commission comprehensively supports the member states in this endeavour. just two weeks ago, a new commission expert group on safe and timely access to medicine for patients (stamp) met for the first time. this expert group will examine ways to use existing regulatory tools under eu pharmaceutical legislation more effectively with the aim of fostering innovation and further facilitating safe and timely access, in order to end the unavailability of innovative medicines for patients with unmet medical needs. the commission services for health are coordinating this work together with other relevant commission services and the european medicines agency. in addition, the use of the joint procurement mechanism, developed by the commission at the council’s request to counteract cross-border health threats, has been further explored. this mechanism enables member states to purchase medicines together so as to help secure access to medicines at better conditions and prices. to start with, member states will be purchasing together pandemic flu vaccines, and they can use the mechanism to purchase a range of other medicines. furthermore, a strategy on eu cooperation on health technology assessment was adopted in october of last year. by reducing fragmentation in the evaluation of technologies and by avoiding duplication, health technology assessment promises to speed up access to innovative treatments. the commission also extends support to member states to mitigate some of the negative effects on patient access that are associated with the common practice of benchmarking national prices to those in other countries. the commission’s public health programme supports research and information tools that aim to provide a better understanding of how pharmaceutical pricing may be applied so as to minimise negative effects on both patient access and health budgets. the first results are expected by the end of this year. in this context, the commission services will continue to support the exchange of information among all interested member states and other relevant eu and national public and private stakeholders, including patients, with the core objective of improving patient access to medicines. next week member state public health delegates will meet in brussels at senior level for further discussion of innovation for the benefit of patients, in the light of the december council conclusions. finally, the commission recognises and appreciates the activities undertaken by parliament in this area, such as the recently established interest group on access to healthcare. indeed, the commission fully supports and welcomes parliament’s commitment to this issue. i am confident that combined action by the commission, parliament, the member states and health stakeholders will collectively make an important and significant contribution to improving access to healthcare for patients across the european union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commission representatives, council representatives, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our european health systems are facing major challenges. the economic crisis has meant that ever larger tasks have to be tackled with smaller budgets. the european union has a long history of supporting the development of the european union. i'm from germany. in germany alone, 500,000 people are infected. in europe, nearly nine million people suffer from this disease. the difficult economic conditions of a health system must not prevent us from helping these patients. however, i do not believe that planned economic demands - such as european pricing or even patent ownership - will solve our problems. in such a planned economy, there would be no incentive for entrepreneurs to innovate. in such a system, the lifesaving medicine for hepatitis would never have been developed. in such a system, there would be no medicines whose access we are allowed to discuss today. the debate today is not about the price of a single pill. it is quite clear that this price is very high in individual cases and almost unaffordable for the health insurance companies and unfortunately also for the patients. but the fundamental question is: how do we foster innovation in medicine while ensuring the best possible care for patients? we need transparency in the negotiations with the companies at the level of the member states. the way to lower prices for patients and health insurance companies is not a planned economy, but fair competition. at member state level, this fair competition must be organised in a transparent and non-discriminatory manner so that all patients, as far as possible, have access to medicines. i believe that both companies and patients can benefit from such fair competition.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not this is not about a planned economy or about politics setting prices. but if you have to pay up to eur 200 000 for a treatment for pills , then that's the bottom of the barrel. i am very pleased that 'doctors of the world' have today filed an objection with the european patent office so that we can have generics in the future. there goes the trip. because here, huge populations are being excluded from access to a reasonable supply. there is another component, namely the development sector. europe and some member states in europe are the price index for other countries in the world. if we want to see the cost spiral continue to rise, we must sit back and say: the market will take care of everything. yeah, he's got that covered, too. we'll see which way. so it will be important for us to think about how we can get prices down. of course we cannot set them, but it has already been mentioned that this is being addressed by hda and other methods. the ema the european medicines agency will play a very important role in this. i would like to ask the commission what the commission and the council are planning to do to ensure that we give the ema more money to do this. is there something planned? is there money planned for future measures? because that's all it's gonna be. but at the end of the day we will save money because we have 28 different health systems if we cooperate more closely there, which has been discussed in the council - i want to say this very diplomatically because i actually liked what you said. we need a little more momentum, and we would reduce a lot of red tape in the member states and make sure that access is improved. because everyone has only one health, and health is a human right and it cannot be commercialized any further until no one can afford it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'll answer that. i think we have tools available -- they've been called hda, health impact assessment, medical impact assessment. and if we need drugs for small populations, then we should talk about the approval process so that they don't take so long. there are models, the stuff is in the drawer. but we need money from the european union to do that. we could relieve national health systems of a huge burden at this point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we will relieve national budgets and health systems at this point. it'll be a shoe. we do not have to set prices, but this would be an instrument in which we have the competence.
mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are talking today about a very important asset, namely the health of the people and access to medicines, which we would naturally like to have for all people in europe equally. it is a wish and an ideal. but we always strive towards ideals. matthias groote is absolutely right: access to medicine is, in a sense, a human right. now, health policy in the different member states - as has been said - is very different. the systems cannot simply be standardized. it is also true that the member states have the competence. i think it's okay that she does that. but we have to think, if we have free movement for people in europe, if we now have health tourism in europe, how can we ensure that, in fact, as many people as possible, or as many people as possible, have access to roughly the same kind of care, including innovative medicines? i think there are a number of things that are quite good as approaches. the council has said that there is an accelerated scientific review. madam minister, you said that about innovative medicines. you also said that you wanted to have a better exchange for the life cycle of innovative instruments. i like that. the commission has said that it has just set up a new group of experts and has proposed that the member states should buy together. it is up to the member states to decide whether this is possible. i know that this i come from germany can be difficult even between the federal states. we had the bird flu once. the länder have been arguing about how much supplies are needed. each had a different supply, and in the end, a lot of money had been wasted. it would certainly have been better if it had been voted on. i think the path is complicated. but i could imagine that might be a viable path. what i think is very important, and what is not up for debate here, but what i think is important for health care in the future with demographic change, is to look for savings potentials. i was a health policy maker in germany before that. there are many ways to save. for example, many things are still done in hospitals, which can also be done on an outpatient basis. there's a lot to be improved. i would also like to see a group of experts for exchanges between the member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has put forward this proposal, and i have just said that i can imagine that it will encounter difficulties because of the sovereignty of the member states. that is why i have described how difficult it was for the countries in germany alone to deal with the bird flu a few years ago. i think we have to move in this direction, so not necessarily price negotiations. but it's about better cooperation, especially on resources for epidemics that are not needed every day, that we actually try to work together to make a savings economy to save money there. saving money is the most important thing to me. and it's going in the right direction.
the next item is the debate on the commission's statement on combating the sexual abuse of children on the internet (2015/2564 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. - mr president, the sexual abuse of children is a monstrous crime. the european union has already taken a series of steps to tackle it, both online and offline. the child sexual abuse directive includes a substantial number of tools to improve the effectiveness of member states’ responses to these crimes and to facilitate international cooperation. so the commission does not intend to propose any amendment in the near future but to focus on its implementation. a study is ongoing to look into member states’ transposition of the directive. the results will be available by april, after which decisions on pursuing or opening new infringement proceedings – 11 are already open – can be taken. in the meantime, the commission is in bilateral contact with various member states to facilitate transposition and notification. there are specific issues regarding the need for law enforcement and judicial authorities to access evidence of child sexual abuse online held by private companies located under different jurisdictions. this is a major obstacle to the effective investigation and prosecution of these crimes, which member states must ensure in order to respect their obligations to protect the fundamental rights of victims. these issues are common to other forms of cybercrime and other crimes facilitated by the internet. given the global reach of the internet, a european union response to them must take account of the need for cooperation with the eu’s strategic partners worldwide. a comprehensive approach is essential to ensure consistency, including in the fight against crime, in cybersecurity, consumer protection, fundamental rights and data protection, and e-commerce. these challenges will be considered as part of the reflections for the upcoming digital single market package. i will now turn to the global alliance against child sexual abuse online. the global alliance is a set of political commitments by ministers from 54 countries to take action to improve victim identification and assistance, improve investigation and prosecution, raise awareness, and reduce the amount of child sexual abuse material available online. the global alliance has succeeded in a number of points. commitments have become part of national policy. but the global alliance still needs to address a number of issues. first, ensure that all countries continue to pursue the policy targets, by mutual inspiration and pooling resources. second, it should reach out to more countries. third, the alliance should react to the trends and threats that we see in the real world, and adapt the response to them. we must also work more closely with the internet industry that is ready to play a role within the global alliance. under the internal security fund, the commission will support the establishment of public-private partnerships between key players from the private sector and law enforcement agencies. under the connecting europe facility the commission will continue to co-fund the long-standing european network of safer internet centres which have a key role in raising awareness about internet safety matters for children throughout the european union. safer internet centres currently operate in 27 member states and cover three functions. firstly, an awareness centre for empowering children, parents and teachers to make the best use of the internet, building on enhanced digital resource centres, from which specific awareness toolkits and services will be adapted and deployed, in cooperation with schools and industry. secondly, an online helpline service for children allowing them to seek advice and to report harmful contact, conduct and content. thirdly, a hotline to receive information from the public relating to child pornography. the hotlines make a preliminary assessment of the legality of the content reported, trace its origin, and forward the report to law enforcement. they notify the hosting isp and monitor systematically the take-down of child sexual abuse content by the isp. hotlines are networked through the inhope association, co-funded by the commission, on a global level. finally, the commission will continue to support law enforcement in more efficient identification of victims and perpetrators by co-funding the development of shared databases, currently hosted in interpol, giving law enforcement better access to data and evidence available worldwide.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank you very much for this debate, which i consider very important. we have recently seen an explosion in the number of crimes and an explosion in the number of children being abused. the internet is a blessing in many ways for us to boost the economy and jobs, but the internet is a curse for those who fall victim to crime through it. i have the following questions to put to the commission. we've set up the ec3, and knowing that the internet is the main platform, it's essential that there are at least enough personnel to deal with this specific form of crime with enough personnel. i'm sorry to inform you that we have exactly three people for the whole of europe. of course, europol also has more staff, but they deal with trafficking in human beings, with organised crime, with all kinds of crime. the first thing i would ask is that we should have the necessary manpower to deal with these crimes. second request: the implementation of the directive in the member states must be accelerated as a matter of urgency and all member states must actually implement the directive, which has been in force since 2011 and is really good. thirdly, i think public-private partnerships are excellent and i also think it is good to see how far we have come in this sector. the cooperation is good. last point: when it comes to encryption, we have to remember that on the one hand, it's important to prevent espionage, to ensure security, to ensure privacy. on the other hand, we must find ways of not protecting the very criminals who rape and murder thousands of children in this world. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. when companies examine data on the internet, it is not done through personal observation, because there is far too much data, but it is done through technical algorithms. only when specific features, such as the rape of a child, are detected by algorithms, does a personal inspection take place. in this context, i believe that this form of observation is important.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not child sexual abuse - we all agree - is a crime, a serious crime, often resulting in long-term physical, psychological and social damage to the victims. the internet creates the opportunity for images and videos of abuse to spread quickly and widely. internet predators use it to establish contact with children. as parliament, together with the council, we adopted a directive in 2011 to ensure that states deal effectively with this type of crime by means of uniform standards, common rules for the definition of criminal offences and the corresponding penalties, and uniform provisions on the prosecution of offenders, including offenders abroad. prevention and protection of victims play an important role, as does improving media literacy. the same applies: blocking such content can always be a temporary solution. the objective must be the compulsory deletion of the content, in the interests of the victims. private providers cannot decide this on their own. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the member states are clearly lacking in political will. in january 2014, the commission issued a letter of formal notice to 11 member states as the first step in the infringement procedure. and only in the case of cyprus has the procedure been suspended in the meantime. by the way , the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the member states must finally do their homework and the commission must fulfil its role as guardian of the treaties without false reservations towards the member states. the commission must submit a report on the directive by december. i'm curious to see how far we've come. we should not forget one thing in this whole debate: abuse is not virtual, it happens every day. it is shocking how differently the problem is dealt with or even ignored in different countries and regions, including europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would have done without it. i wanted to ask my colleague sippel if she really thinks that google should not delete content if it is discovered accidentally where a child is being raped, but should wait until they have someone from the official authorities or even a court order. i believe that in the case of serious crime it is necessary that private companies act independently and in concert. it's not about privacy anymore.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr hohlmeier, every citizen is obliged to intervene in an appropriate manner if he accidentally discovers a crime. but in the discussion of this directive we have very clearly noted that in addition to the clear abuse of children there are also many cases of doubt which are not clear. it is therefore important that there be consultation with public authorities on such matters.
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i have a list for the following catch-the-eye procedure which is considerably longer than in normal debates and i will not be able to include every colleague. i shall try to distribute this fairly among the groups. catch the eye
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the march partsession. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. the abuse of children and the display of child pornography on the internet is a worldwide scandal. the worldwide network allows the perpetrators to reach out to children and to trade images and videos. children must be protected as best as possible. this includes training in the family, in day-care centres and in schools on the proper use of new media. but this requires above all a determined struggle by the member states. the member states must finally transpose the 2011 directive into national law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful organisms. providers must cooperate with government authorities to fight crime at all times. there must be no private systems for monitoring internet activity that operate outside the responsibility of government agencies. this is contrary to the concept of the rule of law. i call on the commission and the member states to ensure that the directive is implemented quickly in the member states and that the responsibility of the state for combating crime is not left in private hands.
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on burundi: the bob rugurika case (2015/2561 (rsp)).
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. the fact that raif badawi's public torture was postponed several times for health reasons shows one thing above all: the cruel consequences of the first 50 lashes. i can't imagine what those 950 more strokes would do. the world's solidarity with raif badawi must not diminish. that is why our resolution today is important, calling for badawi's release without conditions. he's not an isolated case. several bloggers and human rights activists are imprisoned in saudi arabia, and the right to freedom of expression is systematically curtailed. last year, i met with badawi's lawyer, waleed abu al-khair, in saudi arabia, and he was very pleased with the work. he too was sentenced to fifteen years in prison. i would recommend that the eu draw up a list of all nonviolent political prisoners, whom it systematically addresses in its talks with the saudi government.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. it has been pointed out that the badawi case is typical of saudi arabia. but i also want to point out, as a longtime member of amnesty international, that this case is typical of islam. islam is always distinguished from islamism. it is as if you were to distinguish socialists from socialism or capital from capitalism. i can tell you today that out of the 57 islamic countries, at least 55 countries have human rights being trampled on. for example, women and girls are treated much worse than boys and men. most of the victims are muslim. it is therefore right that we should also deal with the human rights violations in all islamic countries here in parliament. i am not saying that we should not be able to do this, but we should be able to do it.
a writer. - mr president, i have to go. the issue of the missing persons of both greek cypriot and turkish cypriot origin in 2001 is an open wound for the families who want to have certainty at last, but also for the peace process in cyprus. the committee on missing persons is making an invaluable contribution here by interviewing witnesses, finding mass graves and returning the dead to their identity. it urgently needs access to all areas of cyprus to continue its work. the committee also needs the continuing support of the european union both financially and politically. in this context, i cannot understand why only nine member states have signed the un convention for the protection of persons from enforced disappearance. the member states should finally send a strong signal against this serious violation of human rights.
in writing. — i voted in favour of a special committee to ensure investigation of tax dumping of multinational corporations. however, i denounce the decision by the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, to not put a revised mandate for an inquiry committee to the vote, even though that mandate is now the basis for the special committee. only an inquiry committee would have granted the right to examine classified documents by eu member states and hence reflect also on the role of some key eu political figures such as the president of the eu commission, jean-claude juncker, in aiding tax evasion and tax avoidance, which deprives eu citizens yearly of nearly 1 trillion euros. such a mandate would have met all the requirements for an inquiry committee, as the eu commission did not act in accordance with eu directives, which request eu member states to inform each other about tax rulings. however, the scope of any investigation must go beyond state aid rules, since tax rulings are perfectly compatible with competition law if they do not discriminate against single companies. i will evaluate all means to challenge the decision of mr schulz legally.
in writing. i support the establishment of the special committee. unlike a committee of inquiry, this form offers a real opportunity to work towards greater transparency and greater tax fairness in a truly solution-oriented way. the fact that international corporations avoid taxes at the expense of citizens and smes must come to an end. but a committee of inquiry would have been a very bad way of doing that. such a committee only leads to controversy and not to solutions. and it is directed against individuals in doubt. the problem is not one of individual cases but of a structural nature. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. the new committee is therefore not just about transparency. i am concerned that we should develop concrete proposals for more tax justice.
in writing. tax fraud and tax avoidance cause financial losses of €1 trillion in the eu every year. in the end, this is theft from society and honest taxpayers who cannot benefit from special tax treaties and cross-border tax avoidance models. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european data protection supervisor. i have agreed to the convening of a special committee on taxation in the eu so that the european parliament, as the representative of european citizens, can detect and put an end to unfair tax practices in all eu member states.
in writing. — i voted in favour of a special committee to ensure investigation of tax dumping by multinational corporations. i now protest against the decision by the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, to refuse to put a revised mandate for an inquiry committee to the vote, even though that mandate is now the basis for the special committee. only an inquiry committee would have granted the right to examine classified documents by eu member states and hence reflect also on the possible role of some key eu political figures – such as the president of the eu commission, jean claude juncker – in aiding tax evasion and tax avoidance, which annually deprives eu citizens of an estimated eur 1 trillion. such a mandate would have met all the requirements for an inquiry committee as the eu commission did not act in accordance with eu directives which request eu member states to inform each other about tax rulings. however, the scope of any investigation must go beyond state aid rules since tax rulings are perfectly compatible with competition law if they do not discriminate against single companies. i will evaluate all means to challenge in law the decision of mr schulz.
in writing. i support the decision of the european parliament to set up a special committee to investigate mr juncker's involvement in the luxleaks affair. unfortunately, the committee's mandate has been watered down. instead of a committee of inquiry, we'll have a special committee. and instead of the juncker system, it examines the state of tax justice and tax transparency in the eu. the winners are the greens, who are allowed to discuss taxation at eu level again and continue to dream of extending eu powers. the black and red social democrats are helping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not left in the lurch. the truth is the loser, because there is no real interest in finding out how mr juncker is involved in the affair. that is why we must remember what it is about: a person who has facilitated tax evasion in his own name cannot be president of the commission. in view of the change in the subject-matter of the investigation, i must also recall that tax competition plays an important role. it's a tax cut and it helps the state not get too fat. the eu rightly lacks competence in tax law.
mr. chairman, i want to explain my vote on the resolution concerning the islamic state. that vote was not electronic, and that's why i want eu citizens and my voters in the czech republic to know that i supported the resolution against the islamic state. i consider the islamic state to be an extremely dangerous entity, let alone an organization, let alone a state, that is currently committing acts against humanity. it's a force that we need to support the allies that are fighting it, and we need those allies to work together more in the future, and we need to think about whether the offensive against the islamic state should take on more forms. i believe that if we don't act on this issue, the danger of the islamic state could grow and spread to other islamic countries, as we see in north africa, for example.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too voted in favour of the resolution. i have to say, all the points are correct. but i was particularly pleased with paragraph 9 of the motion for a resolution because it also looks a little bit at the causes. it is about, once again, calling on the iraqi government to be truly representative, because all the political groups, all the ethnic groups in society must be reflected in the iraqi state in the administration and in the government. i was also pleased because, in my view, it was the initial source that led some people to radicalism. that is why the motion for a resolution is balanced and now we must - if we wish - also implement these points.
in writing. i agree with the european parliament resolution of 12 february 2015 on the humanitarian crisis in syria and iraq. the christians in particular are forced to flee from isis as quickly as possible, otherwise they will be faced with the choice of conversion or beheading. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. in addition to the obvious requirement for member states to prevent the departure of future is fighters, the return of perpetrators must also be detected and stopped in time. otherwise, terrorist cells within europe are threatened to be formed, which in turn will grow and spread through propaganda and education. the people in the affected areas continue to need help. in the form of food and shelter, but also for defense against isis. as soon as possible!
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 12 february 2015.
ladies and gentlemen, the winners of this year's european citizens' prize have taken their seats in our gallery and are paying a two-day visit to our house. the prize recognises the extraordinary commitment to better mutual understanding and integration in the eu. today at 5:30 p.m., a ceremony will be held in the yehudi menuhin hall in honor of our guests. i would like to welcome the winners of the citizen's prize. (applause from the centre)
ladies and gentlemen, the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday 11 february 2015, pursuant to rule 152, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: the european people's party group requests that a statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the commission on the situation in venezuela be placed on today's agenda as the penultimate item before the one-minute speeches on important political issues and with a resolution to be voted on at the march i part-session in strasbourg. the epp group also requests that today's sitting be extended until 10 p.m.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the adopted decision on a strategic framework for the energy union (2015/2565 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we have always been convinced that the european union needs a project for the future and that the energy union, a european energy union, can be such a project for the future. i have often said in recent years that we must be guided by what was the case in the 1950s, in the founding years of the european union, with the great coal and steel treaties or the euratom treaty. but it cannot be that when we decide in 2015 on an energy union and strategies for the future, we are essentially extending what the founding fathers of the 1950s already advocated as new and future technologies. and i have to tell you: i am afraid that the european commission is about to squander the opportunities that the energy union could offer as a project for the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. coal is not much talked about, but it's in, of course, it has a great future with you. you talk a lot about gas, but unfortunately, there is no strategy developed to reduce the high gas consumption. instead of importing gas mainly from russia in the future, we simply switch to countries like turkmenistan or azerbaijan. i have serious doubts whether this is the lesson to be drawn from the crisis in russia, because these countries are not in any way considered to be sensible or safe countries. i do not know how you intend to link all this with the claim that it is an energy union which is also made for the citizens. citizens are for climate action! the majority of citizens are against nuclear energy, and this is true throughout europe. if you want to create an energy union with which the citizens can identify, which adds value to what exists today in the member states, then this energy union must be focused on energy efficiency and renewable energy, on tomorrow and not yesterday!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. today is a historic day, because we have a joint project called the energy union. we should not look for the hair in the soup, the thing that separates us there, but rather what unites us in this place. this is the kind of project europe needs to get back on track. the paris protocol, which is also included in the package and which indicates where the journey must go internationally, is a good way forward. i also believe that you have put the eu's energy and climate policy in good hands on the way to a global agreement. because a global agreement, but also clear laws - and not just strategies - ensure that there is investment security. we have shown yesterday in the european parliament, in the committee on the environment, with a large majority, what can be done when colleagues are willing. we have seen how it works differently in another committee. but in the environment committee, all the colleagues have come together and brought the emissions trading system back to the fore. now, in the context of the energy union, it will also be important to launch a reform of the emissions trading system - as i said: to create jobs and investment security, and to bring about an energy transition in europe. the package and the communication in this form still need to be improved in some areas. but we are on the right track, and we should be on the path to sustainable, climate-friendly energy and to job creation. in that respect, thank you. today is a historic day, which can be compared with the founding of the european coal and steel community.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to congratulate the commission. we are at a crossroads for more europe in energy policy, and we need that to become more independent and to achieve the necessary reduction of climate-damaging greenhouse gases as cost-effectively as possible. i also very much welcome your focus on energy efficiency joint efforts to achieve energy efficiency will make these goals more cost-effective. i am also very pleased that we have had many colleagues from the various political groups, jerzy buzek, françoise grossetête and many others as well as jean-claude juncker and you, write to say that we cannot accept any backsliding in the european parliament's codecision and if i read this correctly, we will continue to have directives in the essential areas we have had so far, such as energy efficiency and renewable energies. however, on page 23 the word 'if necessary' is used. so the need is certainly there. we cannot talk about energy efficiency as much as you have done today and then say we don't need legislation. you can take it for granted that there is a need for this when you revise it and when you implement it further. i am also a little irritated by the 27% figure for energy efficiency. parliament has decided 40%, which will certainly not be the eu's target at the end of the day. but jean-claude juncker said before this parliament: at least 30%, binding, and this is a measure that the commission should be guided by - not only to become more independent of russia, but also to become more independent of the arab states, because many of our geostrategic problems are linked to the fact that we spend far too much money on energy and that the people who are actually our allies do not get it.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! if we want the energy union - and i think this is an interesting and wise approach - and if we want to achieve that the member states work together more closely, to develop their potential together, and to do so in a realistic way, not by saying 'i have a dream', but in a realistic and affordable way, then we must develop all the potential we have in europe, then we must diversify the sources from which we obtain our energy. we need different and new producers, we need new pipelines, we need new routes, we need new lng terminals, we also need different types of energy, and you can't just put it on a map, but you have to line up widely and you have to make connections. mr fox has just described it very well: the links, the building up of networks, that is the key to the internal market if we are to go further in this area. and thirdly, if we are to achieve the internal market, we must at last take the step of europeanising the support for renewable energy. we are wasting a lot of money on the various support schemes. renewable energies could be introduced in europe more cheaply and more effectively if we set up a european support system. i'm grateful that you wrote that down in your paper. i know it's a very difficult road. maybe you can just take it step by step. but there is no alternative. we must dare to be more european, be a little more courageous and oppose small states. we need diversity, not putting everything on the same card.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer. today is the day we've been waiting for since you became vice president. we social democrats are particularly pleased that the energy union is the flagship project of the european commission and is at the top of the political agenda. mr vice-president, the concept of the energy union has the potential to become a european energy transition. and we must seize this opportunity and put even more emphasis on domestic policy measures than before. the strategy paper focuses too much on the foreign policy elements and on gas policy. i would therefore like to stress once again that the energy union cannot be reduced to a russia policy or a gas policy. it is crucial that we focus above all on what we can achieve within europe, within the eu. we must be even more ambitious, and i stress this: we must be more committed to renewable energy and energy efficiency with the appropriate financial resources. mr vice-president, you have not an easy job, but you and your colleagues have shown a great deal of commitment over the last week, and i look forward to working with you, thank you.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the report on the informal meeting of heads of state or government (12 february 2015) (2014/2942 ((rsp)).
ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the vote. before i open the debate, two brief remarks: i shall be very careful with the time in this debate because i have been asked by the political groups to ensure that the time for speaking is respected whenever possible, also because of the debates that will follow. you know, i'm usually very generous, but this time i'm gonna have to ask you to stick to the times. i am not going to be able to accept catching-the-eye procedures or blue cards this time. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its approach to the problem of the budget. the european parliament trainees played football against the commission trainees. i now give you the result: 10 to 1 for the european parliament. i think that this should not be kept secret in the presence of the president of the commission. (interruption by mr juncker: i agree with the result.) mr tusk, you are looking. i know you're an old football player like me. why don't you put together a team at the council, and we'll see how the council interns fare against us. we are now going to the vote.
mrs morvai, you are right. i have no right to unilaterally change the agenda. i didn't do that either. article 162 (6) and (7) govern the procedure for catch-the-eye and blue cards. the catch-the-eye is that any remaining debate time that is not used can be used by the split-off times for catch-the-eye. i said at the beginning of the debate that unfortunately we do not have any time left. we're already behind schedule. secondly, blue cards are left entirely to the discretion of the president. you may read that again: article 162 (6) and (7)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the last informal meeting of heads of state or government took place only a few hours after the conclusion of the minsk talks. the situation in eastern ukraine has improved slightly, but there is no question of the implementation of the minsk agreements. i think mr verhofstadt is right: we must stop reacting when something happens and say much more clearly in advance what will happen if these solutions from minsk continue to be not accepted and implemented, and vice versa what might happen if we could go together down a different path than the one the russian government is obviously taking so far. the situation in ukraine is such that we need a clear language, and the principle of our action cannot only be unity, but also predictability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i ask you one thing in the matter of sanctions: to check whether the members of the russian parliament who are on the sanctions list have to stay there. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. greece has written to the council requesting an extension of the credit facility. the interpretation is that greece has now crawled to the crosses. but i have a different view, because i read the letter. what i miss in the greek letter are concrete figures. what exactly is greece actually offering in terms of savings for the expenditure it wants to make? we know what syriza's promises will cost. but we do not know what the new declarations of intent are intended to include in this letter. the tax collection system is to be improved. but how many billions will this pour into the greek coffers after they have been trying for so long? the customs administration is to be reformed. what does this mean in terms of euro? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. who could? what is the situation with the pension reform that the greeks are seeking? what does that mean? mr president, and also mr president juncker! i see that greece has not provided any figures. but it does receive payments. i think greece has won.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the eu pnr is clear: the european parliament, the competent committee, the justice and home affairs committee, rejected the proposal in its entirety in autumn 2013 on the grounds that it was disproportionate. the rapporteur who made the proposal then has now put it back, and it is almost unchanged. i do not see how the european parliament can agree to this without losing face - especially not in the light of the fact that last year the european court of justice gave its approval to the european parliament's argument and made it clear that the unwarranted retention of personal data is incompatible with the fundamental rights of the european union. i would ask you all to ensure that any proposal for data storage is compatible with this principle. the eu commission must make a new proposal to make this happen. otherwise, this is not going to go forward.
ladies and gentlemen, i should like to thank you very much for accepting that the speaking time had to be strictly observed. we could not allow a catch-the-eye procedure today because we are under extreme time constraints. so i ask again for your understanding that there could be no catch-the-eye and no blue cards. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mr draghi, as the epp group we very much welcome your presence here today in the european parliament. the situation in greece is of concern to us. we must also remember the other member states which have shown european solidarity and have themselves undertaken major reform efforts. but today we're talking about the ecb's annual report for 2013. the essential statement we find there is just as valid today: monetary policy is not a substitute for structural reforms and fiscal consolidation. our epp rapporteur, pablo zalba bidegain from spain, rightly pointed out that the debt crisis must be tackled by a successful combination of measures. we must ensure that the right incentives continue to be provided. the implementation of reforms must not be suspended or even delayed. the effects of monetary policy must be assessed not only in the short term but also in the long term. the possible risks of deflation are certainly not the only indicator. a persistent low-interest rate policy makes it difficult to obtain long-term financing on the financial markets and gradually deprives european citizens of an important foundation for their retirement savings. we must also look at how the additional funds provided by the ecb are actually used. if better financing was meant for the economy, it must eventually arrive there. this is particularly true of small and mediumsized enterprises, which are to form an essential pillar of europe's future investment policy. the transmission mechanism must also work better. this is also what the report by pablo zalba rightly points out. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the limits and objectives of the ecb's policy are an essential subject for the european parliament. this is certainly true of future ecb decisions.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate is about a very important issue: it is about stagnation in the euro zone, it is about the risk of deflation, it is about debt and over-indebtedness in the euro zone. now, many speakers have pointed out that they find it shameful that mr draghi has left this session and his seat is empty. but, ladies and gentlemen, we should also take a little bit of a look at our own noses. the whole parliament is practically empty! the importance of this debate is not being recognised by us either. who has come here to listen to what is being debated? who has come here to participate in this debate, at least by applauding, ladies and gentlemen? the european central bank has been reprimanded, ladies and gentlemen, and rightly so. the european central bank is pursuing a policy of quantitative easing, it is buying up debt securities, it has been pursuing a policy of unlimited allotment for some time now, all this, although this kind of unconventional monetary policy is still to be assessed by the european court of justice. the european central bank is ignoring the democratic vote of the people and says that a single people cannot want to influence the course of monetary policy. the european central bank is putting pressure on governments, the european central bank is pushing savers around on interest rates! but, ladies and gentlemen, we want to be open here, too. the european central bank must do all this if the euro is to be defended. then this is the consequence! but the correct consequence would be that if we do not want all this, as many speakers have said, then we must also say: no more of the euro!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i find the discussion here really appalling, because it is being made to look as if the european central bank had been set up against the will of the member states. the statute of the ecb was ratified by freely elected national parliaments. the ecb can only receive what the national states have transferred to the ecb. and the ecb is independent. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. perhaps the ecb is following the right policy. we should defend the independence of the central bank and do our job. monetary policy is reaching its limits. we need structural reforms that really work. we need parliaments and governments that will bring the stability and growth pact to life, and we must finally stop blaming the central bank for things it cannot do. that's our job!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to express my regret that mr mario draghi does not seem to think it necessary to listen to the views of the european parliament. the ecb report refers to the ongoing process of balance sheet adjustment, which is a key issue for economic activity in southern europe. this process of balance sheet adjustment is what draghi has been trying to achieve for years by releasing debtors with low interest rates. but did it work? the results from italy speak for themselves: the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the loan to the bank of italy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the italian economy is on the rocks despite these policies and the indicators are still poor. we know that mr draghi and mr schäuble have no sympathy for the german savers and taxpayers and have just pumped another 70 billion euros into insolvent greece. but what about his own country? does he not at least want to feel sorry for the young people of italy and give them a new perspective?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. venezuela is a rich country, potentially one of the richest countries. but a wrong economic system, the funding of dictatorships around the world have drained the country. we must recognize that there is a situation today where there is a high rate of corruption, an economic crisis, 68% inflation and a chronic shortage of basic goods. of course, the usual way of this kind of socialism is to develop conspiracy theories - that's the evil gringo in the north, that's the mayor conspiracy. it's the classic way: distract with conspiracy theories and propaganda and at the same time imprison the opposition, occupy the mass media, make long speeches on television - which the opposition is not allowed to do - and then say: we want free elections and wait for the judges, who have also been appointed by this regime, and gradually remove free judges from office. it's a cycle that we've seen over and over and over again in this system. then mr. http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/hugo_chávez" and his successor go to gaddafi and tehran, there is a free cuba celebrated as a model for this world, and that is also financed, and the consequence is for the people as it is. i think this is an unbearable example and it clearly shows that this kind of socialism does not work. and then people are put in jail, they say demonstrations are an invasion of freedom, they want to overthrow a government! mr couso, what are you doing in spain these days when you are demonstrating? the situation in spain is golden, in contrast to what socialism has achieved in venezuela. and you just have to see that this is a way that we have to realize that in this kind of conflict here, the left thinks that it can override democracy if it has failed itself. this socialism fails in the present, speaks of the future and excuses itself with the past. and i think we should really be very clear about these methods and show that you can't get away with it. i see - i spoke to the wife of leopoldo lopez here in the european parliament in december - i see the arrest of antonio ledezma and others, i see what is going on in the prisons. it is an intolerable dictatorial regime that puts on a social mask, but in reality, when its own objectives are not achieved, it is because these objectives are so glorious that it is allowed to use violence and override democracy. democracy is a value in itself. you cannot override them if you think you have your own, better truth, and this is an example that this system of the left, of the undemocratic left, to be a little more precise here, is not the way we should support, because it is against the rights of the people and it is not an example for us! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i know that spain has come out of a major crisis with great effort. i know that in spain there is a free press and a free media in general and that the opposition is not subjugated, that this is done in a free competition and the government is facing this free competition and people are not systematically put in prison. i must say that this comparison of a european democracy with a latin american dictatorship is offensive to the questioner, who has obviously not understood what a rule of law and a parliamentary democracy with individual rights mean. they're okay with violence if it's right for their own ends. they have done so since joseph stalin, and they continue to do so because they are stuck in the same ideology.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. may i make a comment in advance and then ask a question: we have an appointment with the high commissioner at the request of the european parliament, in which debates she takes part and in which she is represented by her own council or commission officials. the commission has done so today, speaking on their behalf and expressing their positions here. this is in accordance with the agreement between the european parliament and the vice-president of the commission and high commissioner. that's why we should refrain from such attacks. i would ask you to withdraw the complaint to the high commissioner on the basis of this information.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the islamic state massacred 21 people in libya ten days ago, they hacked and beheaded them. there is a video on the internet about it, entitled "a message written in blood to the nation of the cross". for the first time, the islamic state is targeting christians specifically. he explained: "we slaughtered these people because they are christians". but the islamic state is not just killing christians. but imagine now that isis had not killed 21 christians, but 21 homosexuals. what would have happened? the european parliament has been a very active participant in the process of european integration. we would probably have flagged at half-mast, and rightly so, there would have been an unheard-of shout. and now, listen to the reactions to the murders, to the massacre of the christians. do you hear her? shut up !
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 25 february 2015.
the minutes of the previous meeting have been approved. ladies and gentlemen, i have the honour to inform you, on behalf of vice-president tajani, that there are leaflets lying in front of the chamber, prepared in cooperation with mr tajani by the services, which provide information on the security arrangements here in the european parliament.
i am not going to go into that. i cannot follow the statements of members made outside this chamber - and you are referring to statements made by the member not here but in an interview in italy - . i'm really sorry about that. i am logically responsible for all the matters which the member you mentioned, mr buonanno, is doing here in the house. i will report to parliament - i think tomorrow - on the incitement i have made against mr buonanno for the things he has done in this house. i am also concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i have no sanctions outside the house.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 5 march 2015, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday and tuesday: no changes. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east, calling on the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further complicated by the threat of terrorism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the idea of putting a resolution on this subject of anti-semitism and violent extremism is that we want to send a common signal once again. we do not want to go into details, but simply want to express as the european parliament what we express in one or other human rights report, which is usually very strongly supported by the s&d, the gue and the greens and also by the liberals. we want to make a joint statement against anti-semitism and violent extremism. i don't think i have to explain to anyone that there's a reason for this. now there are attacks almost every week, of any kind. the resolution is simply an expression of the fact that parliament is united and that parliament is sending a strong signal to the outside world. we have planned a hearing in committee. we have foreseen that we will also take initiatives in terms of content. i hope that this parliament will send a signal in a joint, inter-group resolution against anti-semitism and violent extremism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am informed that the conference of presidents has already proposed that the debate on anti-semitism and other subjects be combined with a resolution, and that proposal was rejected by the conference of presidents. it is undeniable that we must deal very carefully with the subject of anti-semitism, particularly in some of our member states. but we'd like to do this in a different order. the sign is already being set with this week's debate. we want to examine very carefully in a consultation which has already been decided the historical development of anti-semitism and islamophobia, the current challenges and also the questions of what steps we can take effectively against it, and then to summarize all these results in a comprehensive resolution. we are therefore not against a resolution, but we would like to table it after the hearing.
mr bütikofer, you were the first to raise your arm, now you are the last to use electronic voting. (parliament rejected the request) the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative proposals on the basis of the treaty on european union, and to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. all the mediterranean countries are watching the situation in libya with great concern. we therefore want the foreign minister to give an account at this plenary session of how to devise a short-term strategy in the event that the extremists do as they have promised, namely, try to send refugees en masse across the mediterranean, which will again result in the loss of many lives and will particularly affect our countries bordering the mediterranean.
i'm not going to let you go. i must first of all vote on mrs hohlmeier's original proposal, because your proposal is an alternative proposal. or do you want to comment on mr guerrero's proposal, mrs hohlmeier?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism, which are not in line with the commission's proposal.
yes, mr. guerrero, now you've got yourself something!
this means that we could agree to put on the agenda a 'commission statement on the destabilising situation in libya and its consequences'. i would ask those who are in favour of this proposal to raise their hands. (parliament adopted the resolution) (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr marc tarabella, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the progress made in the european union in 2013 in the area of equality between women and men (a8-0015/2015) (2014/2217 ((ini)).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into the details. what we have here is a report on the equality of men and women. but you are taking issues like a woman's right to control her own body and linking it to abortion. do you not think it is inappropriate to deal with quite different issues, such as the highly controversial right of a woman to have an abortion, in a report which is actually about equality between men and women? and do you not agree that it is against fundamental human rights to be able to kill unborn life, when there is indeed a right to life and integrity?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a very important institution in the european union for a long time. i am sorry to say that i cannot join in the great praise for this report. i quote from the report: firstly, the european parliament calls for measures to be taken to ensure that social media do not use sexist language. is the eu language police coming? is the offence of insult no longer sufficient? what, are they banning compliments now? is it permissible for a man to say to a strange woman: "you look wonderful!" or "i like your dirndl very much!"? is he still allowed to ask her to carry her suitcase or is this gender stereotypical sexism that he's going to be pursuing from now on? the european parliament calls on men and women to share more equally their professional, family and social responsibilities. we are paid here in parliament to dictate to the adult men and women of europe how to do their housework better, who to wash the dishes and who to take out the trash. we're paid 750 men and 70 interpreters to talk and translate this nonsense? it is not the business of any state or parliament in the world whether my husband or i hang the laundry! and thirdly, the european parliament - literally - finds that traditional gender roles restrict women's development and therefore prevent them from fulfilling their potential as human beings. the traditional gender role of women is traditionally that of mother and family man. so a mother and a family man can't reach their full potential as a human being? it's kind of inhumane that it scares me. i can't imagine we can agree to that. but i'm glad we have a roll call so we can determine exactly who's carrying this crap. the name of the mess in europe was last estrela, from now on it's tarabella. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i don't think we need sexism at all. but we have criminal records that already cover that. in germany, that's the criminal offense of insult. but we do not need to go beyond the persecution of opinions which may be false and stupid. it's not the state's job to prosecute such stupid, stupid, stupid and somehow inaccurate and stupid statements.
mr president, yesterday we celebrated international women’s day, and with it many years of the struggle for gender equality and against patriarchal oppression. women died. they were tortured, they faced repression, they were made invisible or simply laughed about when fighting for equal rights. one thing all of these women that were fighting for equal rights had in common: they had to overcome massive opposition in order to change society. but they did not stay silent. they did not accept the injustices that were imposed on them. they stood up and changed history. when we are fighting for gender equality in this parliament today, we are facing opposition too – a loud and aggressive opposition that tells us to shut up about women’s rights. this reactionary opposition tells us not to continue the struggle for full democratic representation, for equal pay, against violence against women and for the right of women to decide about their own bodies. we could shut up and stay silent; we could give in, but i myself would not be standing in this parliament alongside many of you if there had not been these brave women that fought for our rights to stand here and to speak as equals. how could we stay silent now? how could we not act according to our beliefs and speak up for many millions of women in our societies? if women 100 years ago had listened to the reactionary opposition, we would still not have the right to vote. if women over the last decades had listened to their opponents, violence against women would still be considered acceptable and part of our culture. but these women – these brave women – did not give up. they fought for freedom, justice and dignity. each member of this parliament should have these women, and also men, in the back of their heads when they vote on the tarabella report tomorrow. i will vote in favour.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think it is good that we in the european parliament are honestly dealing with the issue of equality between men and women. what has been achieved in the last year, in the last few years? what progress has been made in the individual member states? i think it's good that we're having this discussion. i say the same to the right-wing populists in this house: of course we still have problems! it's not over! violence against women, forced prostitution has increased, old age poverty, the gender pay gap - all remain the same. the member states are primarily called upon to provide remedies and to draw up proposals. but it is also a matter which must concern us here in the european parliament. i would like to raise a point, namely why i will find it difficult to agree to the report tomorrow when paragraph 45 is adopted. it sets out a simplified approach to abortion. ladies and gentlemen, i reject this passage! i also do not think it is right that this good report on equality should be used to bring up the issue of abortion. the question of abortion is a matter for the member states, not a european issue. we have been discussing this for many years in our country, in germany, and we have carefully weighed up the issues in the german bundestag: on the one hand, the right of women to bodily integrity, and on the other, the protection of unborn life. many, many debates and discussions have been held on this. i think that this decision on values taken by the german bundestag must also be respected here in this house. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with the council. i'm sorry, but it's a matter of my heart to speak for the protection of unborn life here in this house as well. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you for asking. if article 45 is not accepted, i would vote for the report tomorrow because i think it is important to make a recommendation to the member states. i share your view that several issues are a matter for the member states. but that is also the wording of the resolution. education is, of course, a core competence which falls within the competence of the member states. but i still think that this far less ideological report by mr tarabella - we have already adopted the estrela report and other reports on this subject - would be a good report. i wish i could agree to it tomorrow. but then i also ask that the value decision taken on the subject of abortion in the member states be respected. and if there is no majority for article 45, then i can agree to that too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my thanks go to marc tarabella. i'm sure most women in europe thank marc tarabella. i would like to remind the house that the main initiatives to advance women's equality in europe have come from the european level. there's a lot to do. i'm looking at the job market. women are still disadvantaged. it was said: 17% less pay for the same work. the participation rate of women is lower, women are much more likely to be forced to work part-time, women are underrepresented in leadership positions, and the issue of old age poverty is also a consequence of the lack of equal opportunities for women. the main way of reducing these disparities is to reconcile family and work. we need the maternity directive. i would ask the council to lift its blockade, because women need protection just as much as newborn babies. this would go a long way towards equality in europe.
member of the commission.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteurs and mrs kallas, who have drawn up the opinion for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. i think this is a very solid piece of work. it reiterates the values and the very solid platform of our competition policy, but it also points to some of the very important sectors that we have been discussing in recent years. on the values, the basics and the platform of our competition policy, i think it is very important that it stresses how competition is part of our democracy, and this prevents great concentration on capital and ensures that those who have the talent and the initiative who want to make their case can actually do that in an open market. i think it is very important to stress – as is done in the report – that, in times of crisis, competition rules should not be relaxed. on the contrary, we need to keep our markets open to give everyone a fair chance. as the rapporteur mentioned just now, competition policy is a very important tool in achieving a number of goals, namely an energy union and digital single markets as well as capital markets. we have plenty of knowledge to share. i very much look forward to the debate today and also to standing by my promise from the hearing to listen to, and work with, parliament when it comes to the way forward. i will say just a few words on three very high priority areas: firstly, an energy union. the aims are relatively simple: independent, secure, cheap and sustainable supply. it is very important that we implement the legislation that we already have. then we have a solid platform on which to build our energy union. the role of competition policy is, among other things, to keep an eye on energy companies that re-erect barriers to the internal market to ensure that companies cannot shield themselves from competition. on the digital single market, it is quite obvious that we need a single market because we have very national markets today and it is, of course, consumers and small businesses who pay the price. we need to make sure that we have full-blown competition and to make sure that new technologies can actually reach the citizen. competition helps our small companies to challenge large and dominant players. last, but not least, as was mentioned, tax fairness and transparency. to work with tax, with competition tools, is not a question of using the back door. it is straightforward and out in the open. we need the transparency to make sure that we do not use tax policy to create unfair competition. i am very much looking forward to the debate today and i think it is part of the working relationship between parliament and commission.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are dealing in this report with the year 2013, which was the time of mr almunia, and you, mrs vestager, are now facing the debate for the first time. i think it is important to note that the european union is committed to an open market economy with free competition under all the treaties. that is something which must be kept in mind when we debate this. and the european commission has wide-ranging powers in merger control, antitrust, price fixing, state aid control to enforce the four freedoms of the internal market for goods, persons, capital and services. what is missing - and this was our request at the hearing - is the democratic legitimization of many foundations, guidelines and regulations. this is not yet in the codecision procedure. and that's a problem with the power the european commission has over these issues: individual fines of up to a billion euros to microsoft! the full range of these powers requires that the guidelines be approved democratically. that is one of the demands that are being made on us. i believe that the european commission was too hesitant in the last years of mr almunia's term of office. market shares have been defined in the telecommunications sector, but google has been delayed for many years. unfair tax competition has already been mentioned as a difficult subject. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the aid is not used to finance the construction of new buildings. i just want to mention the keyword nürburgring, you know that. the data provided by the member states concerned were relied upon, rather than independent verification. i therefore ask you to pay more attention to these aspects in your work in the future.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. competition is one of the core elements of our economic form. it is therefore right that since the treaties of rome we have had a competition authority at european level to ensure that competition in the european union can also be fair. that is the honourable task which you, mrs vestager, have now assumed. i wish you luck in developing the rules of the game and ensuring that they are respected by all market participants. this is what we have to expect from competition policy. we have some very big challenges, for example in the area of tax law. we have set up a special committee and we are naturally pleased that the commission has also opened investigations against a number of member states. the digital age is about to bring about a revolution with new challenges in terms of rules of the game, because it is no longer easy to identify where value is created and which rules of the game must be respected. you have a great responsibility. i want to give not just the example of google, but the challenge of digital work in general. and we must also be careful not to weaken ourselves in europe with a misunderstood competition law. i sometimes wonder whether it is wise to weaken the companies that are involved in many areas by means of competition rules, so that they can no longer compete internationally. i could give you examples from aviation, telecommunications and other fields. these are all questions which we must deal with in this parliament. our report addresses these problems. i therefore hope that the commission will take up the many points which we are going to decide on here tomorrow.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, i am pleased to attend this plenary session today to discuss with you the issue of endocrine disruptors. i would like to start by quoting article 168 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu. ‘a high level of human health protection shall be ensured in the definition and implementation of all union policies and activities.’ this is a fundamental rule applicable to all our policies. the issue of endocrine disruptors reaches to the core of this principle. therefore, i would like to assure you that, as commissioner for health and food safety and all the more as a medical doctor, i will only make decisions which respect this very principle; there can be no compromises on health. now let us turn to your question. endocrine disruptors are a highly complex issue. the decision that we take will have a significant impact on health, the environment, agriculture, trade and on a wide range of other sectors. therefore, this is a priority file for me and my services. i would like to start by clarifying the current situation and its genesis as regards endocrine disruptors, rather than commenting on an article in the guardian which refers to some so-called eu paper, on which i cannot respond. to date, the commission has not adopted or published any official commission document on the issue of defining endocrine-disrupting chemicals. i would like to present the work that i have been doing since the beginning of my mandate, which started four months ago, as well as explain my intentions for the future. back in june 2014, the commission defined a road map for the development of the criteria for endocrine disruptors. the road map, which i need to respect and follow, describes the legislative background and policy options that will be evaluated for the endocrine disruptors in the disruptors criteria. the road map also makes provision for an impact assessment. the work for it started already in 2013 under the joint responsibility of dg environment and dg sanco. as of november 2014, it was placed under my full responsibility. let me briefly explain the reasons for carrying out an impact assessment. many countries have raised concerns regarding endocrine disruptors but in terms of transposition of the concerns into legislation we, the european union, are pioneers and world leaders. the eu co-legislators have already set interim criteria which ensure protection of human health and the environment until a permanent decision is taken. the precautionary principle of this approach, which they followed, is one i support. our future decision will set an example, and therefore it must be made in full knowledge of the facts. yet endocrine disruption is quite a recent way of looking at the toxicity of chemicals. we see divergent views amongst scientists and regulators worldwide. there are studies being published every day. just last week new scientific information on the potential high cost to human health and society caused by hormone-disrupting chemicals was published in the press. we monitor these developments and take them into consideration. the new criteria will also affect several other pieces of eu legislation and different kinds of regulatory actions will be triggered. all these reasons objectively justify the need for the impact assessment. i would also recall that the seventh environmental action plan adopted by the european parliament in 2013 asks the union to develop harmonised results-based criteria for the identification of endocrine disruptors, which means criteria applicable to all chemical legislation. this is yet another reason for us to undertake an impact assessment in such a sensitive and complex situation. the assessment, which will evaluate different scenarios to define the endocrine disruptors, is already on trial. the first phase of external studies was launched in november 2014. the joint research centre institute for health and consumer protection is developing a methodology for the criteria to identify the endocrine disruptors. the second phase of the study has already started and will be done by an external contractor. i understand that it will take some time until we complete all the actions set in the road map, but we need to make informed decisions and make them in full transparency. we have organised a public consultation and received 27 000 contributions. they are public and already available via a website. my services are working hard summarising their input. speaking about transparency, a website dedicated to the issue of endocrine disruptors will be made available very shortly. additionally, i will be holding a round-table public conference very soon to discuss the outcome of the public consultation. in preparation for this conference we will also hold preparatory meetings with the main stakeholders, members of the european parliament and ngos. if need be, i will organise more than one public meeting on the issue. i am committed to do my job seriously and in full transparency. in parallel, since the beginning of my mandate, i have discussed the issue of endocrine disruptors with a number of members of the european parliament and a wide range of stakeholders. i have encouraged european ministers to formulate their approach to the question of endocrine disruptors. just last week i met the french minister and discussed the issues with her. it is a complex, difficult file and the members’ questions show their concern. i invite members to cooperate with me, to exchange views with me and my services, and to participate in the debate and future events that i mentioned earlier. meanwhile i am active on this issue. i will do my job in full transparency and will make no compromise on health.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, commissioner andriukaitis, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not a political union. friday, december 13, 2013, was not a good day for europe. that was the day by which the commission should have developed criteria for endocrine disruptors. the commission has been given this task by parliament. however, a glance at the calendar shows that this deadline has simply not been met. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to make it quite clear that there is a clear potential for improvement in the commission's respect for deadlines. for too long, the commission has been working in different directions. precious time was lost. the action against the commission will certainly succeed in this respect. but as legislators, we should not be concerned with being right. we are called upon to make reasonable and balanced legislative proposals. however, the divergent views within the commission services and also in the scientific community make clear how controversial the issue of endocrine disruptors is. there are - as you have just said, commissioner - no simple solutions, and that is why we need a comprehensive impact assessment. the commission's decision to carry out such an impact assessment should certainly have been taken earlier, that is clear. our hormonal system is extremely complex and neither the commission nor science or industry has a simple solution. if we as a parliament want to be taken seriously, we must help the commission to prepare the impact assessment. we need the impact assessment for good legislation. we should not make the mistake of having ideological debates and blaming the commission, the scientific community or industry in a blanket way. the commission is on the right track, albeit with considerable delay. let us continue this journey together. we will then be able to pass legislation that really deserves the label of better regulation.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as chairman of the committee on transport and tourism, i put the following questions to the commission on the impact of russia's restrictions on foreign road transport companies and i would like to state the reasons for them as follows: on 7 august 2014, the russian federation imposed an import ban on certain food and agricultural products, including from all eu member states. for the transport sector, the embargo means a ban on the entry of vehicles transporting agricultural products and foodstuffs and thus a significant loss of contracts. the russian federation also impedes the transit of food and agricultural products subject to the embargo through its territory to third countries, for example by requiring escorts for such transport, by increasing the price of guarantees for companies transporting goods subject to the embargo by a factor of ten, and even by preventing such transit altogether. the russian market is economically attractive for international freight transport companies from the eu, especially those based in russia's neighbouring countries, due to its proximity, size and development potential. the commission has already responded to these restrictions by introducing short-term market support measures worth well over eur 155 million to address problems of market surplus in fruit, vegetables and dairy products. however, the impact on the market for the transport of these products has been neglected. it should be noted that the goods imported from the russian federation, mainly food and industrial products, are transported mainly onshore. for road haulage companies specialising in the transport of foodstuffs, which have invested in such fleets and refrigerated vehicles, the russian embargo means the loss of the majority of their contracts. furthermore, at the last meeting of the road transport group of the international transport forum, held in paris on 25 and 26 september 2014, a russian representative announced that russia would further restrict the cross-border road transport of goods on its territory by reducing the number of ecvm licences valid on russian territory from 67 to 16 as of 1 january 2015. the commission is aware of the seriousness of the current situation and of the consequences of these restrictions on eu road haulage companies. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the russian economy is not affected by the restrictions imposed on the transport sector. what measures does the new commission intend to take to prevent the situation for eu road haulage companies from deteriorating further? the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of nuclear accidents is a very important one. does the commission intend to take action in the trade policy committee to prepare a complaint against russia in the wto? i thank you for your attention and look forward to your replies.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not commissioner bulc, you have basically already given the answer, namely that it is difficult for you to do anything at the moment. it is very important for me to point out that this is not a question of not believing that sanctions are right. we will now discuss again on wednesday what this looks like, just after the murder of boris nemtsov, what we have to do to maintain sanctions. the problem is that in this case, certain sectors are affected. we have already discussed the impact on the agricultural sector and the compensation payments there. commissioner, you yourself have said that there is a crisis, but there is no such crisis in the transport sector. in total, about a quarter of all eu agricultural exports are affected. these are all exports that are transported in refrigerated trucks. these refrigerated trucks can't just be converted to something else. the commission is also trying to find new markets for agricultural products, and in some cases to increase sales in the eu. but that's not gonna happen right away. and if they are new markets, then the question arises whether it is of any use to russia's most affected neighbours. it is true that in lithuania, for example, 40% of exports are affected, which is a huge value. the baltic states, poland and finland are generally the most affected. of course, we have to think about what we can do. commissioner, you have pointed out that: we cannot expect anything from the eu, because we have no pot to match it, and this has to be done by the member states themselves. sure, that's one of them. since we have a european transport market, a single market, we are also thinking about how we can act in solidarity here, because we are also jointly responsible for the sanctions against russia. you said yourself that the data are not yet available. perhaps we can come together more and then try to find a solution, but how to achieve a balance together, and not leave it to the member states alone. because to let lithuania alone, for example, make up 40% of the difference would be unfair when you look at the eu as a whole. so there's a certain helplessness that's easy to see here. but i would be happy if we could find a solution for the transport sector.
the author, question on the 'blue card' procedure. are you aware that i spoke as chairman of the committee and that this was a consensual statement of the committee and not my own? but regardless, i would also like to point out that if you start in history, please start with russia breaking treaties, annexing crimea. this was against all laws, and that's when the sanctions came. so if you're going to look back at history, please start at the beginning.
the author, question on the 'blue card' procedure. back to the story: russia has broken the 1994 budapest treaty, which was signed by all the victorious powers of the second world war. you promised ukraine territorial integrity if it withdrew its nuclear weapons. they did. then russia annexed crimea. do you think that's right or not? if russia had not broken that treaty and annexed crimea, we would not be talking in europe about sanctions against russia and all that comes after that. do you condemn the annexation of crimea, yes or no?
mr president, south-eastern europe was hit hard by last year’s dreadful floods. these had severe consequences for our member states like croatia and romania, and also for serbia and bosnia and herzegovina. i visited serbia three weeks ago and i was pleased to see the results of the european union’s efforts to relieve the after-effects of the floods in may last year. together with michael davenport, the head of our eu delegation to serbia, i visited the town of svilajnac, which was heavily affected by the floods. we reopened a renovated kindergarten and we also handed over keys for private houses which were rebuilt with the aid of eu funding. this visit firmly convinced me that the solidarity of the european union with the citizens of serbia was money well spent for a noble cause. the european union is the biggest donor of assistance for flood relief in serbia, with the eu funding more than 1 000 private houses that have been built, reconstructed and supplied with all that is necessary. but now we need to turn forwards towards flood prevention, and in that respect the european union has secured an additional eur 62 million, of which eur 19 million will go towards prevention. i think this effort and action will be equally important, if not even more important, since we should all work together to prevent a similar catastrophe occurring in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. tomorrow, we shall be discussing abortion once again in this house. it has been stated on several occasions that abortion is not a matter for the european union. we are not paid to talk about things which are clearly not the responsibility of this house. i am talking about the tarabella report. in germany, for example, abortion is a crime. it may not be known. in germany, abortion is punishable by up to three years in prison. the tarabella report now wants not only to make abortion illegal, but to make it a human right - abortion as a human right - on the same level as the right to liberty, the right to freedom of expression and the right to life! we should put our hands to it, and we should stop talking about things that don't belong in this house.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank the members of parliament, and in particular the rapporteur mr jörg leichtfried, for the excellent work they have done. the commission is grateful for the amendments proposed and adopted by parliament and for the constructive work carried out during the legislative process to reach a good compromise. all these efforts have contributed to the possibility of having safer and greener heavy goods vehicles on the roads in the future. the proposed revision of the weights and dimensions directive will serve different eu transport policy objectives. first, it will contribute to road safety. this is for us one of the core objectives and we always try to find new solutions in order to achieve that: better road safety. it is good for vulnerable road users because the new cab design will give lorry drivers a better view of the road. on-board weighing systems linked to digital tachographs and weigh—in—motion stations on the main roads will allow for more consistent checks from country to country. second, it will encourage greener transport. with the use of low—carbon technologies it will make trucks more aerodynamic and therefore more fuel—efficient. third, it will promote innovation as has already been stated, and this will boost the competitiveness of the eu industry at a global level. it is enabling legislation which will allow european manufacturers to sell the truck of the future across the global markets. finally, intermodality. this promotes intermodular transport by cutting red tape to allow 45-foot containers to be shifted more easily between ship, rail and road. this can be described as a win—win situation for society, with fewer emissions and casualties on our roads; for hauliers with lower fuel costs and additional incentives to renew their fleet; and for the industry, which will be able to produce new models with higher performance and to remain competitive on the global market for heavy goods vehicles. i am really looking forward to an interesting debate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think that we have succeeded in reaching a very orderly result on the further development of the weights and measures directive in not very simple negotiations both in the last parliamentary term with us in committee and now with the council in the trilogue. i just want to make a few points. key words have been mentioned: i think that the promotion of intermodal transport is a great step forward. that we've solved the problem that because of the ten centimeters, it was not possible to transport 45-foot containers intermodally, i think that's a good point. the fact that we are going to have more efficient commercial vehicles should not go unmentioned. the fact that we have improved road safety by allowing the design of the driver's cabin to improve the driver's field of vision is a clear step forward. i would also like to raise the issue of stricter controls in the event of overloading. the commissioner has just mentioned it in her speech. i think that's also a big contribution to improving road safety, and of course also accepting that new drive technologies require additional weight and size requirements. all this shows that we are on a very sensible and correct path. but i also want to say: we have always been clear that, as far as the area in question is concerned, 25-metre lorries, 60-ton lorries and the like are not on our agenda in cross-border traffic. and that is also a clear message from the european parliament. what we have given the member states, which have always done this historically, and now also given the scandinavians permanent permission to do this, is not the introduction of long lorries or 60-ton lorries throughout the european union - i want to say this explicitly - but only a confirmation of the status quo that we already have in other parts of europe, but it also creates legal certainty there that would otherwise have been lost. it is therefore a very balanced compromise, which the epp group will also support.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the commissioner for his report. the legal framework for the trucks of tomorrow is hereby established. i say 'tomorrow' because 'it's also expected' that by improving aerodynamics, tomorrow's trucks will be firstly more environmentally friendly, secondly safer and thirdly, which is almost as important, more comfortable for the driver in the cab. i want to make this clear with an example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of pedestrians and cyclists is not compromised. this is part of the vision zero, which is zero traffic emissions by 2050. it is a bit sad that the lobby has won in the council on the introduction of this new generation of lorries. the earliest that would be the case would be 2020. but, in the end, it's good. the fact that there is no general authorisation for the gigaliners to cross borders completes the whole. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all those who have worked on it.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr jörg leichtfried. he did a really good job, because we had very different positions in parliament. he has succeeded in bringing this to a reasonable conclusion, which we all ultimately agreed to. we all agree with what is on the table. we all want to make trucks safer, more environmentally friendly, which we have already achieved with these aerodynamic features. it's all good and right. but i think that when ismail ertug says that we have now created something for the truck of the future, that is not quite right. we missed a few chances. i am sorry to say that. for example, we do not have the extended seat belt. we have the 45-foot container, but we have no way of doing anything about the 48-foot container that's already on the oceans. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european transport network. of course it 's right . not everything that's taller can go anywhere, and lucy anderson's right about that. it is absolutely impossible - and this is not the case in germany - that longer trucks, i.e. the really long ones, the 26 metres long ones, go into the cities. but there's infrastructure where it can be done. and that 's exactly what happened . i can understand perfectly, dear jörg leichtfried, that austria says we have tunnel systems, in the tunnels there are no emergency stopping bays where these long trucks can stop. we don't have the infrastructure, so we don't want them driving with us. it's all right! but i think that wherever it is possible to drive in europe, we should be allowed to drive. that is why i am very much looking forward to this revision clause coming from the commission hopefully before 2020. and another thing: it is the case that, for example, in germany, north rhine-westphalia, the largest state, has agreed to participate in this field experiment for long trucks - with a red-green government, mind you - and that is something that i welcome, because i think that is the right direction. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. mr. leichtfried said yes, mr. ertug said no. i think it's allowed.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague! you have just said that you are against this proposal because it does not take into account the rights of workers. i'm a little surprised by this and wonder if you're familiar with the proposal: the point is that in this case the larger cab is good for the driver, and the fact that the driver himself can see what weight he has loaded so that he can really take responsibility is now regulated. the proposal contains various things which have not only always been from the driver's point of view, but we have also taken very much into account what the driver needs in order to have an improvement through this legislative proposal. i do not understand why you are against this.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not dear jacqueline foster, we know each other well. and i know you're actually very much in favour of the european single market. i was wondering about that. the proposal we had, which has now been rejected, was precisely that the member states should be able to decide for themselves whether they say that my infrastructure is good enough to allow longer units on the roads. so i think it's a shame - and i thought you'd be on our side - that there's no provision in this legislation now. once again, there are, for example, in germany extended semi-trailers that now also fit trains. this would be a variant of how to do even better intermodally. isn't that something we should be fighting for in the future?
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i have waited for years for the revision of the directive on maximum permissible dimensions and weights for heavy trucks and buses. i therefore welcome the small steps that have been taken, especially since they all point in the right direction. the future permissible deviations from the current maximum vehicle dimensions will help to make road transport safer, more environmentally friendly and more energy efficient. the great leap to make road haulage more economical and future-proof has not succeeded. of course, improving the aerodynamics of the vehicles at the front and rear without affecting the loading capacity will increase efficiency. a moderate extension of the combination of trains by 1.3 metres would even improve compatibility with 48-foot containers and rail transport. the change in the shape of the cab will reduce the blind spot in the driver's field of vision, taking into account in particular the needs of vulnerable road users such as pedestrians and cyclists. however, in order to ensure that these road users are really protected, i would advocate the introduction of compulsory driver assistance systems such as cameras or radar systems. the most common violation of traffic regulations is the overloading of trucks. overloading has serious consequences, ranging from damage to infrastructure to increased risk of accidents to distortion of competition between transport companies. i therefore welcome the fact that there is now provision for checking the maximum permissible total weight, either by means of a weighing device integrated into the road infrastructure or by means of on-board measuring instruments. in conclusion, while i support this good report, i am also disappointed that another important opportunity has been missed to finally provide legal certainty on the crossborder use of long-range aircraft.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you just said you're very much in favor of road transport innovation, and so am i. we're talking about really long trucks here. but i wanted to talk to you again about the extended seat belt. unfortunately, it's not in our rules now. it is well over a metre longer than a 45-foot container, is used intermodally in germany and is compatible with the railway. he could be on a ship or an airplane. so it would be a really good option. do you not agree that we should be very careful in the revision, which will be carried out by parliament, to ensure that anything innovative is possible if the member states want it to be?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. he speaks of an investment gap, and that is now to be filled by this new european longterm investment fund, eltif. let 's look back . as long as the euro seemed to be doing well, so were investments. today we know that it was a huge bonfire. the predictable crisis of the euro and the breach of the law to save it have created enormous political uncertainty, including for investors. businesses are at the mercy of political decisions and under these conditions and in this political climate are no longer interested in investing in the long term. the eltif will not fill the investment gap. it does not remove the uncertainty that is the real cause of the investment gap. the euro is not working and attempts to save it are only making things worse. we do not need new funds, we must finally face up to the reality that the euro is suffocating europe. if we can finally acknowledge this, we can look forward again and shape the future.
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
member of the commission.– i would like to thank you all for your comments. we, of course, on the commission side are committed to ensuring that the long—term investment funds are available to be used as soon as possible. as many of you have stressed, we need long—term investment now. to do that we will be working closely with the european securities and markets authority to formulate clear and workable implementation rules which fully reflect the intention of the text you have been debating today. of course we hope for, and count on, your continuing cooperation to make this work a success. the european long—term investment fund is one of the first concrete steps we are taking to make the vision of a capital markets union a reality. we need a diverse, well—functioning, dynamic capital single market in order to support the real economy for smes and businesses to thrive. together we have created a robust framework that offers certainty to investors that their money will be used to fund smart, sustainable growth in the real economy. the projects and companies, large and small, receiving this much—needed financing will have the confidence that they can rely on this capital being in place for the long term. as many have mentioned, this is complimentary; we will also have public investments, bank—lending and other funds to rely on. we will have restrictions too because the regulation prohibits investment in third countries which are identified as high—risk or non—cooperative jurisdictions by the financial action task force. third countries must also comply with the oecd model tax convention on income and capital. the european venture capital and european social entrepreneurship fund regulations have the same requirements; i think that is important. another important thing is that investment in commercial property or housing is only allowed when it is a true part of long-term investment. finally, of course – as many of you have done – i would like once more to thank the rapporteur mr lamassoure and the shadow rapporteurs for their commitment to making this important piece of legislation a practical working reality that we can count on for now.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 10 march, at 11.30 a.m. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. with the long-term investment fund, we must above all ensure that we strengthen the real economy. i hope we have all learned from the mistakes of the years before the crisis and that we have to reduce speculative investment. the real economy is the only one that creates good jobs with decent incomes, social and economic security and, above all, a future. the implementation of all measures must now be geared to strengthening private and public budgets. it's just about decent pay and the social security contributions that go with it. this will boost domestic demand and public budgets. if the eu's budgets are stable again, we will be an attractive market for investment again. let us use this fund, together with the other instruments of an active economic policy, to create and safeguard good jobs in sectors with a future. the fund is creating the opportunity to reorient europe and create sustainable investments.
(the sitting was suspended at 11.10 a.m. and resumed at 11.30 a.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, your highness! on behalf of the members of the european parliament, i would like to welcome you to our house in strasbourg. your visit, now in its fourth year, honours us as a sign of your esteem, your confidence and your friendship with this house and with the citizens of our european union. we also welcome your delegation. i would like to thank the president of the senate and the president of the house of representatives for their cooperation in this matter. it is a special pleasure for us to welcome to the gallery today nine young jordanian students whom you have brought with you in your delegation. we'd like to welcome you all. (applause) your majesty, on behalf of parliament, i repeat what i have already done, but i must also repeat in your presence: we wish to express our deepest condolences and sympathy for the terrible murder of your air force lieutenant moaz-al-kasaesbeh. we all think of our loved ones, seeking their strength, comfort, and support. we have seen with great horror these terrible news and images of the murder of this young pilot. it's beyond our imagination that humans are capable of such atrocities. the criminal and barbaric crimes of the so-called islamic state fill us all with horror. these hordes of terrorists act outside of all the values and norms that bind us together. fleeing the atrocities of terrorists and the civil war in your neighboring country of syria, well over a million syrian refugees have found refuge in jordan to date. we in the european parliament admire the generosity and the generosity of the jordanian people and we are aware of the challenges this poses to your country. (applause from the centre) allow me to assure you and your people - the applause is a sign - of our full support and solidarity with your country in these difficult times. we also want to support jordan in its political and economic reforms. you, your majesty, have set this course of reform, and have thus met the desire of your people for change. they have recognised that reforms can bring peace and respect for human rights to the region. the european union and jordan are also partners in the international alliance against the so-called islamic state. we want the jordanian people to live in dignity and in a safe environment. you, your majesty, have been a key contributor to the security of this region for many years. and even these days, your country is leading the way in providing safe haven for the terrorist militias on the ground. the determination with which you oppose the spread of hatred and extremism deserves our utmost respect. in these difficult times for minorities throughout the region, jordan continues to be a tolerant country where people can live together peacefully regardless of their faith. your participation in the memorial march in paris for the victims of the attack on charlie hebdo was therefore a strong signal, for which i am sure i would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart on behalf of the whole house. (applause from the centre) with this signal, you have shown that jordan is once again standing up against terrorism and for tolerance, respect and peace. finally, your majesty, we have just had the opportunity to talk about this. your tireless commitment to a peaceful solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict shows that you are with us, that we share the same values and norms. we will be guided by these norms and values to face the challenges of these difficult times together. true friends are known in times of trouble. we europeans are proud to have a true friend in jordan and its king. your majesty, welcome to the european parliament. you have the floor. (applause from the centre)
your majesty, you must endure the applause. you may not have wanted the applause to go on for so long, but i had the impression, your majesty, that the house would have applauded much longer. i don't think we've heard such an encouraging speech in our house in a long time. i must thank you very much. you are always a welcome guest and i think that the colleagues have applauded you for speaking to many of us from the heart with what you have said about your country, your region and also about your personal ideas. thank you for this great speech. (applause from the centre)
in writing. ‒ today we voted on proposals to use european taxpayers to subsidize companies in difficulty. these came from poland (1), belgium (3) and germany. the aim is to protect a steel company, a solar company in difficulty and a north american subsidiary from the effects of globalisation. this is a massive violation of european democratic and market principles. the eu preaches 'subsidiarity' but more and more often practices the exact opposite. if a member state feels it must help its enterprises by means of state intervention, then that country must assume the responsibility and the costs of doing so. above all, the government must be accountable to its constituents for this subsidy. it is clear that even basic democratic principles are tolerated by the commission's presumptuous interference. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the common market. it is often the same members of parliament who have been loudly railing against the privatisation of profits and the socialisation of losses of companies who are now adopting this unspeakable subsidy policy. i have no doubt that i had to vote against this.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation fund was set up to help member states in the event of short-term emergencies due to mismanagement, globalisation or financial and moral crises. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'global fund' provides only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide urgently needed specific support. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. i cannot therefore agree to this claim.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation fund was set up to help member states in the event of short-term emergencies due to mismanagement, globalisation or financial and moral crises. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'global fund' provides only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide urgently needed specific support. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. the commission considers that the commission has not established that the eeg-surcharge is a direct result of the eeg-surcharge. the eeg has to be stopped. i cannot therefore agree to this claim.
in writing. ‒ this is the fifth egf application for eu state aid in the steel sector. three applications were based on the 'globalization' principle, one on the global financial and economic crisis. the eu labour office is now paying brussels just under €1 million. other applications from belgium and for the steel industry are not excluded. what if the member states concerned could work together to find an efficient and coordinated approach to solving unemployment in their own member state through their own government? with each application to use the egf, the eu commission continues to develop into a gigantic labour market agency. i cannot agree with that, and that is why i voted against the motion.
in writing. ‒ by approving this application, the eu commission transfers just over eur 1.5 million to arcelormittal belgium for the reference year 2014. the following is written in the handelsblatt of 7 november 2014 on the profits of the company concerned: the world's largest steel producer arcelormittal earned more in the third quarter, mainly thanks to a strong recovery in its european business. earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation rose by 11 percent to us$1.91 billion (eur 1.53 billion) compared with the same period last year, the group said in luxembourg. that was more than analysts expected. sales increased two percent to $20.1 billion. the bottom line was a $22 million profit left. other the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to arcelormittal. i am pleased with the profitability of the steel group arcelormittal and find it incomprehensible that the eu is using the egf in belgium (again!). i'm against it.
in writing. ‒ caterpillar, the world's largest construction machinery manufacturer, generated a consolidated annual profit due to shareholders of eur 3,5 billion in the reference period of 2014 apparently without covering the cost of redundancies in belgium (again belgium!). because this bill is now being paid by the eu taxpayers, through the eu commission: 1.2 million euros of tax money. i'm not carrying that!
in writing. ‒ this is the fourth egf application from belgium in a plenary week. i share the criticism of the european court of auditors on the egf: this 'globalization fund' provides limited eu added value because it specifically responds to temporary labour market problems in a region and is demonstrably inefficient. the globalisation fund is not the best way to provide much needed specific support, which of course does not in any way prevent the commission and parliament from continuing the policy which has been found to be ineffective. that is why i am against it. but i also have some fundamental questions. what is the belgian government doing? is it not their task to promote labour market policy and economic development in the kingdom? and why do so many international companies and production plants close in belgium? this is the fourth egf application for belgium in this chamber. everyone blames globalisation, and the eu commission always steps in. is that really the reason?
i have to say, madam president, i voted against this report because i think it is downright perfidious to present the right to abortion for all women as a human right. the fundamental human right is the right to life and physical integrity. this right is also given to the unborn. it is undeniable that there are situations of conflict in which women must make decisions according to their conscience. but a blanket right to abortion is contrary to human rights and is therefore totally unacceptable as a matter for the european parliament to decide. i think it is a shame that under the guise of human rights, people are trying to violate a human right. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ market-oriented rather than women-friendly the tarabella report is, in my view, a neo-liberal hoax. the content mentions some very important demands for women's rights, but on closer examination reveals many deficiencies. i would like to comment on the points which led me to vote against. the report considers women only as an economic factor. but the human rights of women and children are universal. i did not want to endorse a neoliberal growth policy that subordinates everything to itself. the report is a report which is very much in line with the commission's proposals. i am in favour of the important improvements in women's rights, but i think the report is more concerned with bringing women into the labour market as economic and growth factors as quickly as possible. but surveys show that parents want to spend much more time with their children. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because it calls for easier access to abortion. i believe that abortion is not a european issue but a matter for the member states. i reject easier access to abortion; we must protect unborn life. there is still a lot to be done in the member states in terms of equality between women and men. the main issues are violence against women, forced prostitution, poverty in old age, the existing wage gap between men and women, and reconciliation between family and work. but life issues like abortion are not among them: we have, after years of debate, adopted a highly differentiated abortion law in germany, in which the protection of unborn life and the right of women to their physical integrity are carefully balanced against each other. this decision on values must not be overturned by a european back door. the committee on women's rights and gender equality adopts a resolution each year assessing progress in the area of equality between women and men. this resolution is about the year 2013.
in writing. ‒ the vote on the tarabella report has been a very busy one for many people. in the past few days i have received thousands of messages from concerned citizens asking me to reject the proposal for a universal right to abortion. i share these concerns and have therefore decided to vote against the tarabella report. the tarabella report does indeed make good proposals to improve equality between women and men; violence against women, forced prostitution, old age poverty, the existing gender pay gap and reconciliation of family and professional life are important issues. unfortunately, a substantial part of the report also concerned the demand for a universal right to abortion. i reject easier access to abortion; we must protect the unborn. i'm not prepared to compromise on that issue. we have already had a very intense debate on the question of abortion at the national level. the principle of subsidiarity means that the member states are solely responsible for this. other groups have insisted that the general right to abortion be included in the report. that is why i voted against the report. that is what we agreed as the epp group earlier.
in writing. ‒ there is much to criticize about some of the proposals in the tarabella report. this was also eloquently put forward by bernd lucke and mrs von storch on the part of the afd. i made it very simple today: most of the measures proposed by tarabella have nothing, if anything, to do with the eu. they are the responsibility of the länder. europe's cultures, practices and religious attitudes are simply too different for brussels to dictate how men and women should behave in riga, palermo, athens or london. it is not a question of universal human rights. we cannot, on the one hand, constantly praise the diversity and subsidiarity of europe and then practise simplicity and centralism. that is why i rejected this report en bloc.
in writing. i voted against this report. it is an incoherent series of inhuman, patronizing and ignorant monstrosities. the indifference with which my german colleagues from the cdu/csu and fdp accepted this nonsense in the women's committee, if not actively supporting it, then indifferently, shows how hypocritical the rejection of this abstruse report by the members of the cdu/csu and fdp was. women who are mothers and who care for their children and families are not full human beings, according to this report.
in writing. ‒ if the eu has a reason to exist, it is to deepen and extend the single market. without them, the eu would be nothing, and it is a pity that these areas have not been the focus of attention in recent decades. instead, a 'single market' has been created for all sorts of things: education, family policy, social policy. the most devastating decision was that for the 'internal currency market', i.e. the single euro. instead, competition policy must be promoted, competition between eu countries encouraged and the economy further liberalised. i was happy to agree to this report by our group member, mr morten messerschmidt.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the messerschmidt report because i cannot accept that we have not found clear words against extrajudicial dispute settlement procedures under paragraph 95. if we take the people of europe seriously, we must take a clear stance in all reports on trade agreements. our legal systems are strong enough to handle and resolve disputes according to the good democratic rules.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank (ecb) should work on the model of the deutsche bundesbank. that was one of the conditions under which the germans gave up their d-mark. the ecb has now become a copy of the banque de france. the bank is highly politically influenced and is fully controlled by potential 'receiving countries' which can easily override potential donor countries. not only will the number of donor countries always exceed that of recipient countries, but each country will have equal voting rights in the ecb. malta and cyprus have as much to say as germany and france. this alone makes it impossible to change the indirect redistribution policy which the ecb is now pursuing. since the announcement by the president of the ecb, mario draghi of italy, of the purchase of virtually unlimited amounts of government bonds on the secondary market, this institution has been engaged in monetary state financing of states unwilling or unable to reform. this is also why the afd professors lucke, kruse, starbatty and i announced on 13 february 2015 that we would sue the federal government before the federal constitutional court within three months if it refused to take action against the ecb. it goes without saying that i have rejected this annual report.
in writing. ‒ the european central bank's annual report 2013 is right on many points, right on some and wrong on others. it is not possible to reject it completely or to agree with it completely. that is why i am against it. the ecb's annual report was also presented in spring 2014. it has also been published for some time, so that the evaluation of the report by parliament is irrelevant. it is right in principle that parliament should control the ecb. no central bank can operate in a free-for-all. the legislator shall lay down rules on the content of the mandate. the problem is that the mandate of the ecb was not given by the european parliament. the mandate of the ecb cannot be changed by the european parliament either. the ecb is thus subject to a parliamentary sham control which is neither effective at present nor can be effective under the present conditions. the control of the ecb should be vested in the euro area member states. however, they refuse to control the ecb and to force the ecb to act within its mandate by legal action.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would also like to welcome someone from the council presidency here this afternoon, because i intend to deal very intensively in my speech with the council's position-building in the past. but maybe someone's watching on the internet. mr fernandes, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we all share the interest in seeing the budget used to the extent possible for growth and jobs. but the europe 2020 strategy also has a social and an environmental dimension. i am one of those who find these objectives clearly too defensive. the commission's proposal is that the social and environmental dimension of the budget should be given greater prominence and that the programmes and instruments to be used for this purpose should be strengthened. we will also pay close attention to how the eu's outstanding payment problems are addressed in the context of the 2016 eu budget. i am looking forward to the commission's proposal on this, madam vice-president. so far we have only been able to stabilise the situation of unpaid bills, we have not reduced it. the council seems to rely on many programmes being implemented late, leaving money unused which can then be used to pay outstanding bills. i doubt very much that it will be that easy. the council should have learned its lessons from the last budgetary procedures. in the spring of last year he cut the commission's draft budget and had to agree to a supplementary budget of several billion euros in the late autumn. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and because of that, the closure of budgetary appropriations, i.e. decommissioning, will not be a solution. the eu budget may eventually be reduced, but whether it can then achieve the political objectives is questionable. the council has some allies in this house, but we social democrats do not consider a small budget to be of political value in itself. we're all about solving problems. we should also take into account the stability and growth pact in the context of the 2016 budget. ladies and gentlemen, if member states cannot pay their contributions in a budget which is largely invested, because they then violate the stability criteria, then i think we have a clear argument for why this stability and growth pact should be ideologised urgently. and finally, i care about the revenue situation. smuggling is damaging to the eu budget. the tobacco industry alone is costing member states' budgets €10 billion a year. this is a billion euro for the european budget. we've had our differences with the council before over less money. i would like to make one further point on the revenue situation: the only real own resources of the eu are customs duties. does anyone in the eu, especially in the council, give any thought to what the forthcoming free trade agreements with the usa and japan will mean for the budget? we shall, in any case, be keeping a close eye on the own resources debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. vice-president georgieva, i too welcome you to this almost overcrowded house. it is not that important, it is only a few hundred billion euros. we'd have to talk about trillions, then maybe more colleagues would be there. we're talking about the guidelines for the 2016 budget. the report contains four recitals, dealing in particular with the importance of this budget for the member states. we all agree. it contains 19 findings and claims. we are all concerned about the high level of unemployment, the scandalous level of youth unemployment. we all want to create jobs. it also highlights the potential we have in the budget to improve all these things. we are in agreement on this. but the question is, how do we promote all of this? we in the ecr group are quite clear: only by means of accompanying measures, only by means of self-help. we want to ensure that the people who receive aid are able to do so as soon as possible, so that they will not need any more aid in the foreseeable future. we are missing in this report the clear signals that it is going in that direction. we want a lean budget. we believe that this is an important value for the eu as well as for the member states. we are afraid that we are instead going in the wrong direction, and we see a particularly bad signal in the 315 billion euro investment programme. we believe that this is going in the wrong direction, because it calls for more state control and restricts the free market forces. it is not a good thing, and we have had plenty of examples of that in the past. one example is that german universities will not be able to apply for funding from this programme in the future. at the same time, we are cutting funding for basic research in horizon 2020. these are all wrong signals. that is why we, the ecr, reject this report.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to join the chorus of praise and also thank and congratulate olaf on its achievements. but i have massive doubts about the statistics. we must clear up these doubts, and we must do so together. i think we have a problem at olaf with the reliability of data. it is now possible to say that there is statistical uncertainty about the length of proceedings and about the number or treatment of cases. however, one could also call these statistical ambiguities manipulations. the olaf monitoring committee has produced an important report on this and other systemic deficiencies, but the commission should finally take the reports seriously and act. we need a functioning anti-fraud system, but i believe that preventing audits of statistics and other monitoring measures by the office is really the only thing that reliably works. i'm also concerned that the truth is always coming out in pieces. i would like to make that very clear. the same applies to the conference of investigators in the home town of the director-general. your predecessor has indicated 50,000 euros in costs. you have now given the actual cost, which is 136,000 euros. i think this shallow manipulation of facts is an incredible thing. but what you did, commissioner, was an important start. i'd like you to continue with that.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking commissioner georgieva for her work on improving the financial management of european union expenditure. we agree. as rapporteur, i have presented a report on performance-based budgeting in the european parliament. we must move towards a budget management based on results. citizens expect eu funds to be well spent. this is the main focus of future work. we in the alde group have insisted that the commission should also use its instruments, that is to say, that the interruptions and corrections should be used in practice to force member states to correct errors if they are found. 80% of the eu budget is shared responsibility, managed by the member states. and the fact is that the corrections and interruptions have led to member states paying more attention to money. the error rate has gone down. but at the same time there are fraudulent transactions. while not every mistake is fraudulent, there are criminal practices. and they must be punished. the olaf, the anti-fraud office, is important here. but it must also be monitored by the rule of law. that is why the monitoring committee must be strengthened. we need a european prosecutor. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the matter. let me now turn to the important subject of combating tax fraud and tax evasion. if over a billion euros are lost from public hands every year because there are tax avoidance models, tax avoidance, tax reduction, then action must be taken. that's why we liberals have also requested the luxleaks special committee. we should be at the forefront of public education here as the european parliament, because the citizens expect that action will finally be taken at european level. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the first question is: what is the european union responsible for? in fact, the eu does not yet have competence in this area. but the crucial question is: in your country there is a debate about whether competences are being relegated, for example, to internal security. but what's the point? we have cross-border crime today, we have criminal gangs that operate across borders all over europe. we need more cooperation! and this has to be done within the rule of law. in this respect, the european public prosecutor is a good instrument. i urge you to promote this idea in britain!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am very pleased to hear from the council today that funds and aid will continue to flow to these crisis countries, because of course it is absolutely necessary to build up the health systems there. we need to focus on controlling ebola, but not just ebola, but other diseases like malaria, hepatitis c and so on. the economic development of these countries is of course equally important. that alone seems to have made this conference worthwhile. the president of liberia, mrs johnson sirleaf, has spoken of finding a marshall plan. mr stylianides, you have spoken of having found a common plan for this economic development, and that gives me great hope. but i still think that we made mistakes in this ebola crisis, and we need to learn from those mistakes. we need a vision for the future, including a kind of marshall plan, to be prepared, to have structures to be able to intervene in crises of any kind quickly and in a coordinated and targeted way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. today, more than a year after the outbreak began, we are still fighting for the one great goal of final eradication, the destruction of the ebola virus. but that's not the only goal we have to fight for. it is crucial to address the totality of the sectors concerned. we need to have an integrative, cross-sectoral, comprehensive and sustainable view of recovery. at the same time, we must meet the urgent needs that would be there: ensuring the care of children orphaned by ebola and the social integration of ebola victims, restoring and strengthening basic medical services, ensuring water supply, sanitation and hygiene. the three countries most affected lost more than 200 years of medical expertise as doctors died of ebola. in this respect, it is important to develop an immediate medical training programme for doctors and nurses to overcome the shortage of local and medical staff. in parallel with the efforts made by the eu and the international community in the field of ebola vaccine research, feasible programmes should be established to vaccinate the population in the most affected countries. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that the commissioner has a clear idea of what is going on. you spoke of the final extermination. i would allow the term in this context. what do you think of this: polio was virtually eradicated. it's up again. polio has developed structures that are unique, that you can easily replicate for pathogens like ebola. so what we're saying is, maybe we should fund polio until it's actually eradicated and eradicated, and then use the structures of that to build on other viruses like aids and ebola. what do you think of that?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think it should be our goal, in general, to fight all the epidemics -- ebola is one -- and of course also to adopt meaningful structures and also to finance so that we can get a handle on this kind of thing permanently. ebola is in retreat, but the first neglect is starting again. and so it is necessary that you take precautions in advance.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the ebola epidemic is slowly receding, thank god, but it is not over yet. after considerable initial difficulties, the eu has done a good, committed job. i would like to express my gratitude to our commissioner for the remarkable and respectful work he has done there. but the thanks also extend to those who, as doctors and nurses, are the true heroes in the fight against ebola. those were glimpses of tragedy. this tragedy could have been avoided, or at least reduced, if we had not had three fragile states with difficult health systems. and this should be the lesson for the future: we need to make sure that we build robust, strong health systems in development policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i welcome the objectives and results of the ebola conference. the need to build public confidence in the aid organisations that provide local parole for this disease was also highlighted. i think that is a very important approach. commissioner, if we are to set ourselves the objective of fighting ebola, it is also necessary to help the population to abandon certain traditions in the field of food procurement which are directly linked to the virus disease. i am talking about hunting, processing and eating meat from infected wildlife, such as bats, wild antelopes and monkeys, also known as bushmeat. it is therefore essential that such measures include training programmes on the ground to inform the population about the health risks of bushmeat. only then will it be possible to rule out another epidemic.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to make a brief comment on this debate, if i may, because there is hardly anything to add to the last speaker. it is about the integration of the countries of europe into the european union, and that includes the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. i would like to take this opportunity to make it clear: i was standing next to federica mogherini at the press conference, where she did not use the correct term twice, but she did not do it on purpose. you have to admit that in a very tense situation, like a press conference, a person may use an expression that is not 100% correct. please don't make a big deal out of it. it's legitimate for someone to be not 100 percent correct once in a while. secondly, i have the utmost respect for any parliamentary debate, and the name problem is a problem that must be solved, because we should not doubt the country's perspective. but i would also like to say quite frankly that on the one hand greece has other very serious problems, and on the other hand fyrom is facing a major domestic crisis which must be resolved and which, in my opinion, is much more dramatic. i think we should have this discussion here in the house. i would like to thank in particular mr howitt, mr vajgl and mr kukan for their willingness to contribute to this very serious internal crisis in the fyrom and to help it to be overcome so that the country can continue to have a european perspective, which we hope we can all work on together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope that we will succeed in this matter too, in a joint effort with our friends on the ground. i would therefore like to ask you and express my thanks once again to mr vajgl and to all those who have made a special contribution to the fact that we have been able to discuss this report here today.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, let me thank you for this interesting discussion on the basis of the excellent work of rapporteur ivo vajgl. the fact that the eu agenda remains the strategic priority of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is positive. however, our debate today clearly demonstrated that we all share concerns about the increasing politicisation of state institutions and the growing shortcomings of the independence of the judiciary and of freedom of the media, which is damaging the sustainability of reforms. in this regard, we also count on the european parliament support to call on all leaders of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to take decisive action to rapidly address the concerns. mr howitt called on the presidency to be more proactive in setting a date for the start of accession negotiations. i can say that the council is fully aware of recommendations by the commission and we adopted conclusions in that context in december 2014. yet with respect to the current political situation, the eu has expressed serious concerns. these are very serious charges that need independent and proper investigation and the high representative of the union and the council has been clear on this. the council will revert to the issue any time this year on the basis of an update by the commission on implementation of reforms, including in the context of the high—level accession dialogue and on tangible steps taken to promote good neighbourly relations and to reach a negotiated and mutually acceptable solution for the name issue. i agree that the former yugoslav republic of macedonia needs eu support, but this support is conditional on the willingness and readiness of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia itself.
in writing. i do not agree with the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on the former republic of macedonia. the commission has also proposed that the council of ministers adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) in the republic of macedonia. but the european union is in a dead end of over-regulation, centralisation and standardisation. the alleged progress of macedonia is therefore catching up in the wrong direction. if the direction is wrong, any speed is wrong. in this respect, it must be stressed that the fault lies not with macedonia but rather with the european union. it should not be able to take on any more members at this time. before enlargement is possible, the dream of a free europe must be re-dreamed. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the conditions for the accession of new member states are met.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, regarding serbia, i would like to underline some points, which are also reflected in your resolution. the council in its conclusions of december 2014 welcomed the launch of accession negotiations with serbia on 21 january 2014, and the ongoing screening process. with the beginning of accession negotiations, serbia has moved to a new stage on its path to the european union. in this regard, the council welcomed the high level of engagement and preparedness demonstrated so far by the serbian government. strong commitment is a particularly important ingredient of any state’s negotiation process in moving towards eu accession, as it is linked to an often challenging reform process. serbia’s ambitious programme of economic and structural reforms is an evident manifestation of its efforts in this regard. in line with the new approach, opening benchmarks have been set under the rule of law chapters, requiring comprehensive action plans. the council positively noted that these chapters were being addressed early in the negotiations. the rule of law is a fundamental eu value. these chapters are rightly at the heart of the accession process as they have a cross—cutting effect on all the policy sectors covered by the accession negotiations. therefore, progress under these chapters needs to be made in parallel with progress in the negotiations overall. we also welcomed the progress made in the past year, including in public administration reform, judicial reform and the fight against corruption and organised crime. serbia actively participated in regional law-enforcement cooperation. this led to effective results in the fight against organised crime. the council encourages serbia to further intensify its reform process. continued strong efforts are needed to ensure an effective, independent judiciary and to build a track record in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the promotion, implementation and full observance of fundamental rights must be ensured, including the protection of the most vulnerable groups, particularly the roma. the legislation on the protection of minorities should be implemented effectively, and the treatment of minorities should be non-discriminatory. particular attention also needs to be paid to tackling discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. there are concerns about deteriorating conditions for the full exercise of freedom of expression. we will continue to emphasise the importance of promoting and protecting an environment that supports free speech and media freedom. the business environment and the investment climate should be further improved. attention should also be paid to implementing public administration reform and to implementing the economic and structural reforms required to restore fiscal sustainability, and ultimately to support growth and employment. in this regard, the council welcomes the commission’s approach of focusing on strengthening economic governance and competitiveness. this should prove valuable in supporting the efforts towards meeting the copenhagen criteria. an essential part of serbia’s eu integration process is regional cooperation and good neighbourly cooperation. in this regard, the council welcomes serbia’s continued active and constructive engagement in further developing regional cooperation by participating in regional initiatives such as the south—east europe cooperation process and the regional cooperation council, as well as by strengthening bilateral relations with other countries of western balkans region. serbia also needs to maintain active and constructive engagement in the normalisation process with kosovo, which has seen significant progress. in this regard, let me welcome the resumption on 9 february 2015 of the high—level dialogue, as well as the finalisation of the agreement on justice and the judiciary in kosovo. advancement on the normalisation of relations with pristina and full implementation of the brussels agreement, by means of the high-level dialogue, are directly linked to forward movement in serbia’s eu accession talks. the council will continue to monitor closely serbia’s continued engagement in the process, including the implementation in good faith of all agreements reached so far, so that serbia and kosovo can continue on their respective european paths, while avoiding a situation in which either could block the other’s efforts. progress in this process needs to be made in parallel with progress in the negotiations overall. the council has also called on serbia to align progressively with the eu common foreign and security policy. it is especially important at times like these for countries wishing to join the eu to show commitment to the common european values. last but not least, serbia should also continue to cooperate effectively with the european union rule of law mission (eulex) and contribute actively to the full and unhindered execution by eulex of its mandate. the council looks forward to the next meeting of the accession conference and to the opening of the first negotiating chapters with serbia.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate david mcallister for his resolution on the 2014 progress report on serbia. this is a very balanced and comprehensive assessment of serbia’s progress on its eu path, which is overall in line with the findings of our 2014 progress report. i share the view that serbia’s efforts and progress need to receive a positive narrative from the european union and i look forward to the opening of the first chapters. negotiations with serbia are underway. the country has committed to difficult reforms and has come a long way on the normalisation of its relations with kosovo. this is also key for stability in the region. the screening process is on schedule and should be finalised by the end of the month. serbia’s negotiation team has shown impressive commitment and professionalism throughout. discussions in the council on screening reports are expected to continue throughout the year. now serbia needs to deliver on key areas, including the rule of law and the normalisation of its relations with kosovo which need to be tackled early in the negotiation process in line with the negotiating framework. the resumption of the high level dialogue one month ago after a break of almost a year is crucial. the agreement on justice and judiciary in kosovo has been finalised. this is a welcome development. working groups are now meeting to take forward the work on implementation on which both sides are expected to continue delivering results. once sufficient progress is assessed, we could move forward on chapter 35. i hope this can happen in the near future. serious work is also on—going on the rule of law issues. i look forward to the adoption of credible, comprehensive and sustainable action plans. i am also hopeful that this could contribute to the opening of chapters 23 and 24 before the end of the year. the serbian government should also ensure that progress is not put at risk in such a way as being perceived as interfering in the work of the ombudsman’s office or stepping back on freedom of expression. media freedom is a non—negotiable fundamental right and a key condition for progress on the eu path. this is the message i constantly convey to my serbian interlocutors and in particular to prime minister vučić with whom i am in regular contact. at the same time, we should be careful not to add requirements not provided for under the eu acquis or the negotiating framework. in this respect it is important that bilateral disputes do not hamper the overall accession process. the commission remains firmly committed to support and guide serbia on its european path and i appreciate that the european parliament is on the same page.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, as the new standing rapporteur on serbia, it is an honour for me to present the resolution on this 2014 progress report and i would like to welcome ms jadranka joksimović, the minister in the serbian government dealing with european affairs, who is with us tonight. this resolution sends out two main messages, firstly serbia is on its path towards the european union. looking back, 2014 was an important year for serbia; the formal beginning of the accession talks took place on the 21 january 2015. i am convinced prime minister vučić and his government show commitment to the european integration process. they tackle head on the systemic and socio—economic reforms; this deserves our respect and support. in recent months, the serbian parliament has adopted important laws on whistle—blowers, media, labour, privatisation and bankruptcy; this is a positive development. nevertheless, a thorough implementation of legislation and policies remains essential for a successful integration process. secondly, ‘fundamentals first’ is key in the negotiation process. i consider as fundamentals: the rule of law, economic governance, the reform of public administration, aligning to our eu foreign policy and the normalisation of relations with kosovo. how long the accession negotiations will take primarily depends on serbia’s ability to make sustained progress on the eu agenda of reforms. i am convinced this progress can be made. the train from belgrade is on its track towards brussels, let us encourage serbia to stay on this european track. finally, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their fruitful cooperation; it was our goal to present a realistic, fair and balanced resolution which i think we achieved.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was in kosovo three weeks ago and spoke with prime minister mustafa, among others. the draft report was also discussed there. i would like to express my thanks to mrs lunacek on behalf of the epp group for her good work as rapporteur. a dominant theme in priština was the wave of migration of asylum seekers from kosovo to the european union. this has been raised today, and germany is particularly concerned. the first major measures, such as additional border controls, appear to be contributing to short-term successes. but i would like to take this opportunity - because the ambassador of kosovo to the european union is following this debate tonight - to emphasize what my predecessors have already said: an information campaign on the ground is crucial. the european union has also been involved in the negotiations on the future of the european union. in the medium and long term, however, the situation in kosovo will only improve if the economic situation there recovers appreciably. the european union is ready to make its contribution. there is a lot to do in kosovo. we should all support this country together.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank members for their continuing support for initiatives on kosovo. the draft resolution discussed today is a very constructive one and i would also like to thank mrs lunacek for her work, which i can imagine was not always easy. it quite clearly shows kosovo’s structural problems, both with regard to the economy and the rule of law, but also points to the way forward. therefore, i strongly believe that signing and concluding the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) this year will send an encouraging signal to all kosovo citizens that kosovo’s future lies in continuing its progress towards europe. the saa will help further consolidate the country’s engagement on european integration, provide an important stimulus to pursue necessary reforms and address kosovo’s economic challenges. let me also thank, in the presence of the ambassador, the leading authorities of kosovo, and in particular the president of state and the prime minister but also others, for the immediate, quick and tough reaction to the immigration flow we faced at the end of last year by communicating in the country itself that it does not make sense to leave the country to try to apply for asylum which is not recognised. all these efforts have led to a sustainable decline in migrants and this is proof of the quality the administration and the politicians have already reached in kosovo. please pass on my thanks to the authorities in the country itself. perhaps i can do this myself because i will have the pleasure of being there in two weeks’ time when we can participate in a western balkan six conference hosted by kosovo dealing with connectivity in the area of transport. i think this is already a very good signal of the fact that kosovo is fully participating in all the activities in the region itself, trying to better connect the countries in the region and to contribute to peace and stability, to growth, to jobs and to prosperity in the region. i wish you all the best and once again thank members of the parliament for this very constructive work and contribution in the interest of kosovo and therefore in europe’s interests.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, the eu will continue to assist kosovo of course, including through its strengthened presence on the ground. however, the primary responsibility for progress lies with kosovo, its leaders, institutions and civil society. the council recognises the importance of concluding the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo as soon as possible. it will be an important contribution to regional stability, closely linking kosovo to its european integration path, and creating an additional incentive for reforms in kosovo. the council now awaits proposals from the commission to be able to proceed with the council decision, with a view to concluding the agreement without delay. reforms are crucial and will require the political leaders to live up to their responsibilities for the good of kosovo and of its citizens. key eu—related reforms are essential, not just to please the eu, but because they are in the interests of kosovo and in the interests of its citizens.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council meeting of 19 and 20 march 2015 (2014/2941 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i am glad to address you today on the forthcoming meeting of the european council. it will be dedicated to three major topics: the energy union, the economy and external relations. they all require adequate attention at the highest political level. let me start with the energy union. successful establishment of the european energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy is among the most important priorities of the latvian presidency. i am very satisfied to see that the energy union enjoys broad support among the members of the european parliament, which was reflected, among other things, by the discussion of 25 february 2015 in parliament’s plenary in brussels. we followed the debate very attentively and took note of the views expressed. it is very important to keep the political momentum and to proceed without delay in making the energy union a reality. over the last months there have been several fruitful and constructive discussions on the energy union at various levels. the first was the riga conference of 6 february 2015 and i am very proud that it is in riga where we started ‘moving away from 28 different national policies to the good european one’, as it was stated by vice—president šefčovič. the council started immediately to work on all the five dimensions of the energy union. let me briefly mention some preliminary views expressed in the council to give members an insight. the views expressed in the council so far will be handed over to the president of the european council thus contributing to the debate of the european council. first, on energy security, solidarity and trust, there were broadly—shared views among ministers that reducing energy dependency and vulnerability, especially concerning gas supplies, is a priority. there was also general support for bolstering supply diversification strategies of sources, suppliers and routes and reinforcing strategic energy partnerships. second, on a fully—integrated european energy market, the council underlined the necessity for strong and coordinated action to accomplish key infrastructure projects and to increase, reinforce and coordinate cross-border interconnections, as well as underlined the need to fully implement the legislation. third, on energy efficiency, the council underscored its importance in support of energy security, competitiveness, decarbonisation and innovation, as well as bringing direct benefits to consumers through lower energy bills. fourth, on decarbonising the economy, the views in council were in favour of using the potential of renewable energy sources more cost-efficiently and sustainably. concerning the fifth dimension – research, innovation and competitiveness – the discussions in the council touched upon funding for research and innovation through horizon 2020 that should be targeted effectively. let me be clear that overall there is a common view in the council that all five dimensions are equally important and interconnected, and they should be mutually reinforcing. the council expects from the european council clear political guidelines for further work. the major focus of the march european council will be on enhancing energy security, reaping the benefits of the internal energy market and pursuing climate diplomacy. traditionally, the spring european council is the economic rendez—vous. the european council will conclude the first phase of the 2015 european semester. this reformed and streamlined process requires from the european council a clear steer to member states for the preparation of their national reform and stability or convergence programmes. and that is what the european council will do. the european semester will also constitute an occasion to have a more general look at the union’s economic situation. in this context, i welcome the adoption by the council yesterday of the general approach on the european fund for strategic investments. i reiterate our full readiness to cooperate constructively with you to adopt the legislative act by june, so that the european fund for strategic investments can be fully deployed from mid-2015. on the economy, the european council will also discuss the state of play in the negotiations with the united states on ttip. this is a very timely and important debate which could give further impulse to the process of negotiations. its economic and geopolitical importance was once again reiterated by the president of the european council, mr tusk, when speaking to president obama two days ago. i will turn to the european semester in a more detailed manner during the joint debate in a while. the third topic of this european council will be external relations. following the informal meeting of heads of state and government on 12 february and following a very fruitful exchange of views at gymnich foreign ministers’ informal meeting, the european council will discuss the recent developments on the implementation of the latest minsk agreement, the situation in ukraine and relations with russia. based on the assessment of the situation, the council is expected to agree on further steps. this european council will also give a steer to the preparation of the eastern partnership summit. the summit will take place in riga on 21 and 22 may this year. we all want it to be a success. we all see at what cost comes the striving of some of the eastern partnership countries to build closer relationships with the european union. it is paramount that the european union shows adequate commitment. the european council will provide guidance in particular on the objectives of the summit and on the way forward concerning some issues. meaningful deliverables and clear vision for the development of the eastern partnership in coming years both in the multilateral field and in relations with each individual country are equally important. the riga summit should send a strong political message reaffirming the strategic importance and our commitment to the eastern partnership summit. this will also include implementation of the association agreements with georgia, the republic of moldova and ukraine. the riga summit should demonstrate the union’s intention to strengthen, in a differentiated way, relations with each of its six partners based on the level of ambition and the goals to which they aspire in their relations with the european union. more incentives for the most advanced partners and development of individual bilateral relations with other partners should be considered. particular efforts shall be devoted to advance cooperation in such areas as state building, people to people contacts, as well as economics. at the riga summit we should achieve progress in the mobility area, as well as use the current window of opportunity to deepen eu relations with belarus. the riga summit should emphasise that the eastern partnership has achieved concrete results and it is advancing. finally, the european council will have an exchange of views about libya. we have seen some positive developments as regards the reconciliation talks in rabat under the good offices of the un special envoy, bernardino leon. the council will continue closely monitoring the situation in order to respond adequately, when appropriate. the situation in libya will also be discussed in the upcoming foreign affairs council. the situation there is escalating and this has consequences not only for the region, but also for our own security. we are concerned about the destabilising effect libya has on the region, as well as illegal migration and terrorist threats that cannot be tackled without addressing the internal situation in the country. the european council will revert to these issues in more detail in october in the context of a broader discussion on the southern neighbourhood. to better manage migration flows it is important to continue to implement the comprehensive approach adopted by the council on 10 october 2014. the presidency will continue to closely monitor the situation and will address this issue at the upcoming justice and home affairs council this week and in june. i thank you very much for your attention and look forward to a very fruitful debate this morning.
president of the commission mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, mr first vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i simply want to inform you that the commission is at work, that it is working swiftly and that it is trying to work efficiently. we have submitted the investment plan for your consideration and for your nuanced approval, which is of great importance. we have adopted new transparency rules that we wanted you to take inspiration from: there is work and effort to be done. we have published a green paper on the capital markets union, which is essential. we have presented our initial ideas on the energy union, we have taken decisions on monitoring in the context of the european semester - sometimes controversial, i know - but if you read the decisions in detail, you will see that they read like a poem, they speak for themselves, and therefore they should be read in their entirety. we have launched the debate on the european agenda on migration. we have moved the timetable forward: in the work programme that was presented, it was planned to deal with this issue of the migration programme in july, but in view of the recent tragic events, vice-president timmermans has decided to move the presentation of the programme forward to may. finally, we have started to review our neighbourhood policies. i will tell you, if i may, a word about the energy union. the objective which must unite us around this concept of the energy union is the need to guarantee the european union's energy supply. it is about making sure that we remain or become competitive in the energy sector. this is about not losing sight of our commitments on climate policy. in fact, as far as security of supply is concerned, we are not in an optimal situation. we import 53% of the energy we consume and the cost of this import is €400 billion a year: we spend over €1 billion a day importing energy that we would do better to save. our electricity prices are 40% higher than those in the united states, which, in terms of relative and comparative competitiveness, deprives us of all the means we would need to be able to compete on a par with the united states. we need to bring together the 28 energy markets into a single energy union. it is about taking concrete steps so that we can build a more integrated, more interconnected and more secure market. all of this is possible if we have the firm will to achieve these goals. we saw this a week ago at a mini-summit in madrid between president hollande, the spanish and portuguese prime ministers and the president of the commission, which was aimed at liberalising the iberian peninsula, which is a veritable island in terms of energy supply. at the 2002 barcelona european council - which i attended as prime minister - we agreed on a 10% interconnectivity target. we are still a long way off, but with the decisions taken in madrid we are getting closer to that goal. i am impressed that the three governments concerned have set up a working party to monitor the implementation of these decisions. if we had done it in 2002, we wouldn't have to do it now; the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. that is what we did in madrid a week ago, and that is what we must do to put an end to this irrational element in our energy landscape which is to see 28 energy regulators evolving in parallel, and very often against each other. we should put an end to this waste. i would like to stress once again the need to meet our climate commitments. the paris summit is fast approaching and we must be prepared to ensure that the targets we have set for ourselves - a 40% reduction - are shared by as many other partners as possible. this year's european semester is special in that we have again accelerated the procedures. instead of presenting country reports in may and june, we have moved forward the presentation of these reports to february, so that parliament, the council and also the social partners - since the social dialogue is particularly important - can examine them in detail. i note with satisfaction that the council of finance ministers unanimously adopted yesterday - a rare thing in europe - our proposals for the european fund for strategic investments. a year ago, in march 2014, who would have thought that we would be able to ensure that europe can rely on an investment plan worth 315 billion euros? i also note with satisfaction that spain, germany, italy and france have announced bilateral contributions to the financing of the european fund for strategic investments, for which the countries concerned should be congratulated, after inviting all others to do the same. for once, let all other countries follow the example of france and germany! instead of complaining about the overwhelming influence of these two countries, other governments should follow their example. i would like to ask parliament again to act consistently and swiftly with regard to this strategic investment fund and investment plan. i am well aware of the debates taking place in this house, i am well aware - not to ignore any details - of the attitudes of each and every one, and i would like to say here - as i have done elsewhere - that the commission, that is to say europe - without equating the two - needs a solid guarantee of funding. we cannot, without the 16 billion, assure the investors and everyone else that the investment plan will have a happy future. i therefore strongly urge that a guarantee fund of eur 16 billion be made available to the fund for strategic investments. i do not want to interfere today in the debate between those who have a natural and understandable inclination towards research policies, the volume of which will not be reduced by the commission's proposal, and those who, in the field of interconnectivity, have far-reaching ambitions, which the fund does not increase either. i would nevertheless like parliament to know that we must find a mechanism at all costs to enable us to put in place a solid guarantee which is not subject to the vagaries of the annual budgetary procedure. it is very likely, mr president, that the european council will have an exchange of views tomorrow on the free trade negotiations we have had and will have with a number of countries. i do not want to go into the details of this debate, but i would simply like to say that at the european council i will be urging the heads of state or government to tell us very clearly. i have observed that when we meet in the european council, everyone is in favour of concluding an agreement with the united states, and when everyone is back home, i notice, when i read the statements in the national press, that the enthusiasm is waning. the distance between brussels and the various capitals is a few hundred kilometres, but it seems that this journey is not only a source of good inspiration but also a weakening of ambitions; therefore, i would like us to clear up this matter. i have told you everything about the substance, but about the form, which is only the substance that appears on the surface, i would like governments to say clearly what they want. i would not want frans timmermans, who is in charge of the transatlantic partnership in particular, since he is in charge of everything the commission does and does not do, to die a sudden death on the altar of an agreement which, as it turns out, nobody wanted. so we will not be asking the prime ministers for answers, but for a rough indication of their short- and long-term intentions. the first vice-president, with his full authority, will inform you, mr president, of the aspects of our neighbourhood policies.
i would like to thank mr timmermans. you're not even on the list of speakers. but as we are polite people, we will let you speak, of course, in the shortest possible time.
first vice-president of the commission. mr president, our neighbourhood has changed a lot in the last ten years. from eastern ukraine to libya, the least that can be said is that it has become much more unstable. it confronts us with important challenges that touch on the core of many of our interests, including the security of energy supplies and the management of migration flows. moreover, not all our partners share the same ambitions and aspirations for their relations with the european union. we are facing a major geopolitical challenge. we must take these factors into account when we approach the next eastern partnership summit in riga. it is a question of confirming the specific dimension of this partnership within our neighbourhood policy, but also of reaffirming that this partnership is not directed against anyone. it is the expression of convergence of interests and values while respecting the right of each partner to freely choose the level of its ambitions in its relations with the european union. each european country has the sovereign right to determine its own destiny without being subject to other states. the debate in the european council will no doubt focus on the crisis in ukraine. the aim is to take stock of the implementation of the latest minsk agreement and to develop a strategy that encourages all stakeholders to strictly respect what has been agreed. sanctions against russia must continue to be part of our strategy. we know that the most difficult elements of the agreement have to be put in place by december, while the existing sanctions expire in july and september. the commission will contribute fully to the implementation of these agreements. we have resumed trilateral talks on gas. i hope that the next meeting, by the end of march, will address the issue of gas supplies to ukraine until spring 2016. a few words about libya. we support the diplomatic efforts led by the un special representative, bernardino león, and call for the formation of a government of national unity in libya. the commission strongly believes in the virtues of dialogue. this requires determination and patience, but we must do all we can to keep the lines of communication open and to avoid being drawn into a dangerous spiral of confrontation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to start with the energy union, which will be one of the council's main topics. i thank the commission for the ambition with which it has put forward its initial ideas. europe must become more independent in its energy supply. this is one of the key tasks we have to master. the commission's approach to competition is, of course, the right approach in the energy sector. we need partnerships with other energy producers. the united states is a partner with whom we want to discuss energy exchanges more in the future. the ttip is an opportunity to talk to the americans about energy issues. i fully support the position of our president of the commission that we need clarity from the member states on their position on ttip, above all from the management level. we want ttip to succeed! the second point i would like to make on energy is that the first task which the council should undertake is to implement the decisions which have been taken so far. it would be interesting if the commission would present a report on what the council has promised and what has not been delivered. the example of strengthening the interconnectors between france and spain is an issue which has been on the table for a long time and has unfortunately not been tackled. the council should therefore first of all take a self-critical approach to these questions. i would like to make one final point on the energy question, namely the link between climate protection and climate issues. the european union is the global leader in this area. we support the european union in paris as the leading power in climate action. but i would also like to say on behalf of the epp group that in all our leadership, in all our taking the lead, we must also look in the meantime to see if others are following us. we must not lose sight of our competitiveness. the commission president has shed light on energy costs in his speech. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second point i want to raise is concern about the economic situation in the european union and, in particular, the situation in greece. the epp wants the euro area to remain united, the epp wants greece to be and remain a strong and stable partner in europe, in the european union. the aid that has been confirmed, the extension of the programme by the euro-states, confirms that we europeans want this. i would point out that there has never been such a large majority in the german bundestag for a programme as there is for this extension. that means that the parliaments in the euro zone, including the member states, want a partnership with greece. we need a greek partner who will work with us in earnest. and when we hear in brussels that the greek government agrees to extend the programme and then in greece, in athens, it is claimed that there is no longer a programme, when in brussels the greek government agrees that it is ready to continue to accept surveillance in the form of the institution with the new name, and in greece it is said that there is no longer any surveillance, then this is not a serious approach. i hope that the greek government will soon feel that it is really a government and will stop being a campaigner. this would be extremely important for the further development of this context. the patience - i must say - is certainly not infinite, and athens has a great responsibility here. i would like to say in this overall context what we, as the epp group, want to stress in the decision on france: the european union must not give the impression that it treats large and small member states differently. these are the issues that are the main items on the agenda. i would like to conclude by saying that we in minsk share the hope that we can secure peace in ukraine. the main thing for us is to maintain unity and, secondly, to take account of the economic problems of ukraine. europe is doing a lot there, but we know that it is not enough. we must do more to help ukraine over the hill economically now. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. we have made agreements with our greek partners in the past. these agreements were signed by the democratically elected representatives of the greek people in the past, as they were in the case of portugal and ireland. we practiced the partnership. the european union now expects the greek government to implement what is agreed and signed in brussels at home and explain it to its own citizens. we must put an end to this double-dealing and then we can return to a sensible approach. i would like to emphasize once again that everyone, including our group, wants greece to remain a strong and stable partner in the eurozone.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the debate on the summit that is taking place has so far been on a number of points. i would like to refer mainly to the question of the energy union, since we will then also be discussing the european semester. i would simply like to make it a little more fundamental, mr juncker, because i also had the impression that neither the council nor the commission are discussing the issues behind the debate on the energy union any further. the fundamental question is whether access to energy for people should be a priority, rather than the question of price and supply stability being considered solely from the point of view of large companies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i regret that we are not discussing these fundamental questions further. because if we continue to be stuck in this grid as we are, nothing will change, and questions like energy poverty - why people suffer from not having enough energy to heat, wash and cook here in the european union - will remain virtually unanswered and unresolved by any kind of fine-grained rhetoric. mr juncker, you were right to point to 53% of imports, you also said elsewhere that it was important to you that the eu should become number one in renewable energy. i believe that what is being presented now in the council is not aimed in that direction, not aimed at the fact that we can really make a change. it is not ambitious enough to say that we do not want to lose sight of the climate targets. i would like to draw attention to another connection. last week the chancellor was in the commission and she said that she would be very keen to see ttip signed this year. i would like to point out that there is a link between ttip and the energy union, and that link is fracking. neither the council nor the commission has spoken today about fracking and that fracking is one of the reasons why there is pressure to speed up ttip. i want to point out again that we don't think fracking is the way to actually drive an energy transition and also to say that we're setting ourselves up on a different basis. the test drilling at saal in mecklenburg-western pomerania was stopped last summer. to this day we have no information as to the reasons for the cancellation of the pilot project. i think there are enough reasons why fracking should be prevented from being introduced and that ttip should remove the barriers to the introduction of fracking. i would ask you to take this into account in your considerations. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with you, of course. i must also note that the council and the commission have often enough ignored the positions of the european parliament. i have therefore now turned specifically to them to point out once again that at least some of the members of this parliament are taking a different view.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. guy verhofstadt said: 'this is the third summit this year. i would add that this is another summit which, although jean-claude juncker has been very calm in his pronouncements - 'you will be famous for this one day!' - is taking place again at a time when the european union is under enormous pressure from forces moving in different directions. greece is not the most prominent issue on this summit's agenda. but everyone here knows that it is not only in greece that people come home and talk differently than in brussels. i also note that in germany people who have spoken in brussels about greece speak differently at home and in these discussions put the unity of the european union at risk very lightly. but i think that there are also increasingly more forces in the debate on the european union's attitude to russia's new and aggressive policy. we have spoken about this many times, but it is clear to me that this debate is also about whether we as europeans really stand for what we normally associate with european ideas, whether we stand for the fact that citizens on this continent can choose freedom and democracy outside the european union or not. it is a question of whether or not we will allow ourselves to be blackmailed by the policy of aggression and lies which is dominating moscow at the moment. i want to say it again at this point: the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. these sanctions are necessary, not as a means of educating putin - i am not making any such claim - but they are sanctions, they are changes which are an expression of our sense of self as the european union. the energy union is the field that donald tusk has brought into play in this debate. unfortunately, as gabriele zimmer and others have rightly pointed out in the debates, including in brussels, the idea that the energy union will once again be dominated by the ideas of yesterday is a risk that this project will be brought to a standstill. instead of really focusing on innovation, on renewable energy, on efficiency and defining a future project for the european union, we are extending the policy of interest to industries that are not really sustainable. the whole debate on nuclear power and new subsidies is perhaps the best example of this. on ukraine: we need to do much more, we need to be a force for change in ukraine. a real, well-coordinated task force to help ukrainians get out of the crisis - that's what we need! and let me make a warning: i don't think that former ministers or former commissioners or current members of the bundestag are actually the ones who should do a consulting company "building ukraine" with ukrainian oligarchs and also publicly funded. these must be people who have real experience of transformation processes in eastern europe. these must not be people who want to earn something, but they must be people who really work with the ukrainians, with civil society, who know how to change the country.
mr. courthouse! i really must ask you to restrain yourself. you may not like the speech. but we democrats listen to them, too. now don't interrupt me too!
mr farage, please! we have now extended your speaking time and we have also brought mr verhofstadt to his senses. (cheers and applause) well, reason is always a matter of definition. in my opinion, you're not a member of the expert group on reason. but i asked mr verhofstadt to at least listen to you. i hope he does in the future. but if you honour all the flags in the house, your own and all the others present, we are satisfied.
mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i want to talk about the energy union: i do not think the commission's proposal is perfect in all respects, but it is interesting and good because i think it is reasonable for us to look at reality and consider what we can actually do and change and what we have done. we've made enough decisions. it is perhaps time to see whether the decisions are being implemented. i find the examples of spain, portugal and network building very interesting. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the internet. we have to get that done, then we can prove we're getting something done. mrs zimmer, on your remark that the remarks of the commission and the president of the commission on the question of industry override the interests of the people - i think you are typing wrong, sorry! people are interested in cheap prices. you said it yourself: if energy prices are rising and people can no longer pay for their energy and are sitting in the cold because we have too expensive energy, then that is a problem! then we have to think about why energy prices are cheaper in america. you can't just dismiss that by saying, "everything they do is wrong". they're using their energy sources, like fracking. just saying no isn't going to help either. taking care of industrial interests and energy prices has something to do with people too. because if prices go up too much and jobs go away, people don't have jobs. and they don't find that interesting. so this is unrealistic too! there is a huge opportunity to bring european policy together on energy issues in the networks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. making new programs and wasting money is not very smart. it is a good thing that the commission has taken the initiative to promote renewable energy in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. let me say just a few words about the foreign policy which will play a role in the european council. we particularly welcome the fact that in future our eastern partnership policy will be much more differentiated, because it is also necessary. we have the group of those who are concluding a trade agreement with us, an association agreement, and already within this group there are very different partners. we have the armenian partners who are joining the eurasian economic union, and we have azerbaijan, which is seeking a very different form of partnership. the fact that we tend to fail under the 'one size fits all' approach shows that we need to be more differentiated than we have been in the past. i would also be interested to hear from you after the european council whether we want to continue to wait for the ruler in belarus to become a good person before we want to start working to change things for the better in a dialogue. secondly, we expect that the council will naturally regard the minsk agreements and their compliance and implementation as a particular priority. it is an eu initiative, even if it has been carried out by two heads of state, so to speak. it is important for us that this peaceful process goes ahead. therefore, all involved should strive to avoid adding fuel to the fire. what the people in ukraine need is humanitarian aid, and fast. i don't feel that this is happening visibly enough and fast enough, alongside all the other things that are important to building this country and restructuring it. as always, it's a give and take. more for more is probably not the right thing to do in this case, given the emergency situation, but it is important that we have concrete reform demands that are linked to our continuing to support the country economically and financially. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
i am not going to go into detail. you're very active with blue cards this morning. first of all, mr reul and mrs zimmer: mrs zimmer was given a blue card just before the end of extra time. i couldn't see that. i'm going to have to ask you, given the time, to maybe settle this bilaterally. i think the left party and the cdu get along so well that they can do this.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am quite right in saying that two minutes is not enough time for me. but i can't cover every subject in two minutes. so i focused on the other thing. i am sure that this discussion will also take place in the council in due course.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that the energy union is not a rhetorical bubble, but an opportunity that we should take to shape. because this is a project that can unite us, that can move us forward in the european union and that can also ensure prosperity. that is why we should do everything we can to make the energy union a clear success. i think it is important that we as a parliament are clearly involved here and that things are not organised and regulated in the european semester in the context of the energy union, but that the whole thing is clearly done in the ordinary legislative procedures, that parliament is involved in all the steps. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am convinced that it will be a success with maroš šefčovič at the helm.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr vilimsky, are you aware of the studies from 2007 which show that a common european army could also bring about much greater security for less money? the eu countries spend 50% of the amount the us spends, but only get 15% of the military effectiveness. it would be useful, for economic reasons alone, but also for reasons of security policy, to consider a common european army of volunteers. i think it's a very good idea.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european semester is an early warning system for economic policy which the commission and the member states have at their disposal, but which, in my view, they are still making far too little use of. we are therefore very critical of the commission and the member states' decision to allow an extension of the deadline for reducing the deficit. such a decision is difficult to explain to many citizens in europe. rules are there to be followed, after all. this must apply to small and large member states alike. i think that parliament's opinion sends a clear message. we are committed to continued consolidation, we call for the consistent implementation of the country-specific recommendations and we emphasize national ownership. the black peter game with the eu institutions is no longer working, as we are seeing in the greek negotiations. we stress the imperative need for structural reforms to be implemented, and we also make it clear that any investment offensive is not a substitute for reforms. we want to stimulate the european economy, of course. but credibility in economic policy and a consistent commitment to reform are key factors for investors. the european semester can provide valuable impetus in this area. above all, the european semester can also provide early warning of any wrong developments. i therefore call on the member states and the commission to make greater use of this instrument in the future. the sins of the past, where national failures were placed on european shoulders, must not happen again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is a clear link between austerity and increasing poverty. this has also been confirmed by the independent annual growth report. poverty and unemployment in europe remain at historic highs. precarious working conditions are almost the rule. the regions of europe are drifting further apart and the imbalance in europe is growing. yes, we need structural reforms, but not unilateral labour market reforms at the expense of workers, but reforms that combine sustainable growth with fair, good jobs. the coordination of economic and financial policies is not working. the result: growing euroscepticism and polemics and incitement. that has to change. we need a strong social pillar in the european semester. social and employment policies need the same commitment as fiscal policy. we shall then move on to a social europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to you, mrs steinruck, for describing the situation, because what you said is absolutely right: the impact of the european union's policies is devastating for many member states. the coordination of economic and financial policies is not working. but we also have to ask what it is. we have a system of rules that doesn't work, and i think it's because we're not equal anymore. the european parliament has created an increasingly complex regulatory framework, starting from very simple coordination arrangements, which has become so opaque and confusing that the commission can switch and control at will. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the eurozone is no longer a stability community. we must ensure that we create a law that is also applied, so that what is done is also right. that is what is lacking in the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have been listening for a long time now, and i think it will be difficult to pick up some of the points. it is important to me that we take seriously one element of the european semester, namely the single market governance and i am pleased that not only vice-president dombrovskis but also commissioners thyssen and bieńkowska are here today that we take seriously the pillar of the single market that has been integrated into this european semester. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. mr president, i would like to say this again: i think we talk too little about this in this house because it creates an effort on the part of the member states which they are not happy to make and because we do not yet have the power to carry out adequate controls on the implementation of national legislation. but that's actually the core task, because that's where real growth actually lies. i think that this is precisely what the report by our colleague, mr ildikó gáll-pelcz, from the committee on the internal market is pointing to, and i am very grateful to mr rosati for making this clear once again. there is considerable growth potential for all the member states in the european union and it is a pity that we are so anxious to make better use of this easily attainable objective.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council! you have just emphasized the importance of the digital single market in your remarks. i would like to make a special reference to this one point. electronic commerce, investment in broadband infrastructure, development of digital solutions, data protection, net neutrality and 'security' are keywords that need to be discussed in this context, and i agree with you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we do not do this, we will have no future in these areas. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, i have one more request. i have heard today that the council does not want to abolish roaming charges but is proposing a very strange solution, namely a 5-5-5 solution. i hope that's just a joke, some joke i heard. because to say, 5 minutes, 5 texts and 5 megabytes are free of roaming charges, and then you have to pay again so i find that simply ridiculous. i very much hope that this is not a council proposal. in any case, the european parliament will not be able to agree to that in any case.
in writing. i support the parliament's strong call for a specific internal market pillar to be included in the european semester. this should better support the real economy and boost growth and employment. it also highlights the digital single market, the free movement of goods, services, public procurement and concessions, and the community acquis in consumer protection as key areas with the greatest growth potential. as regards the assessment of the integration of the internal market, it is proposed to develop an overall indicator to better measure the 'internal market gap' and the regulatory performance of member states.
in writing. the 2015 annual growth survey analyses the economic situation more clearly than in previous commission opinions. weaknesses in financial markets, over-indebtedness or structural deficits are mentioned. the commission is desperately calling for the will to change at national level and for the assumption of responsibility. unfortunately, the commission is praising the ecb's recent balance sheet expansion by buying huge quantities of sometimes dubious securities. the latest oecd growth report finds a marked decline in the eu's willingness to reform. this means that many governments showed a high degree of willingness to reform after the crisis peak, which then decreased significantly as a result of the ecb's discharge. the ecb is not only expropriating savers but is also slowing down the pace of reform and the will to reform in europe, and is putting off problems for the future! the commission's hope that member states will tackle fundamental problems in parallel with the ecb's activity is therefore highly doubtful. the juncker package is also likely to cover up problems in the short term and to strengthen the reluctance to reform. meanwhile, at european level, the emergence of a 'lost generation' is often accepted helplessly and resignedly, and a clear analysis of the causes is still often denied. this is not only damaging the foundations of the eurozone and the european union, but also the foundations of societies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against these proposals because they clearly point to montenegro's membership of the eu in the near future. the afd, however, has positioned itself in its european election programme against the enlargement and deepening of the eu. those who support stabilisation and association agreements (saas) are in fact helping to prepare for this enlargement.
in writing. ‒ the regional fisheries organisation (rfo) is intended to promote the development, conservation, rational management and optimum use of living marine resources and the sustainable development of aquaculture in the mediterranean and the black sea. the conservation and sustainable use of living marine resources within the scope of the convention and the protection of the corresponding marine ecosystems play an important role in blue growth and sustainable development. however, marine ecosystems are developing across borders. here, the eu can indeed create structures to support cooperation between the neighbouring countries. that is why i voted for this motion.
in writing. ‒ i am against the enlargement of the eu. i do not agree with the preparation of the matter. this attitude will not change until the eu and its institutions are renewed and reformed from the ground up and we develop the eu again as a federation of sovereign states and not as a federation of states.
in writing. ‒ i am against the enlargement of the eu. i do not agree with the preparation of the matter. this attitude will not change until the eu and its institutions are renewed and reformed from the ground up and we develop the eu again as a federation of sovereign states and not as a federation of states.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the motion for a resolution on the 2014 progress report on serbia. serbia is required to approximate to the acquis communautaire by adapting its national legislation and restructuring its social life. but the european union is in a dead end of over-regulation, centralisation and standardisation. the alleged progress of serbia is therefore catching up in the wrong direction. if the direction is wrong, any speed is wrong. in this respect, it must be stressed that the failure is not serbia's but rather the european union's. it should not be able to take on any more members at this time. before enlargement is possible, the dream of a free europe must be re-dreamed. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the conditions for the accession of new member states are met.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo. in order to negotiate a stabilisation and association agreement, kosovo is required to align itself with the acquis communautaire by adapting its national rules and restructuring its social fabric. but the european union is in a dead end of over-regulation, centralisation and standardisation. the alleged progress made by kosovo is therefore catching up in the wrong direction. if the direction is wrong, any speed is wrong. in this respect, it must be stressed that the failure is not kosovo's but rather the european union's. it should not be able to take on any more members at this time. before enlargement is possible, the dream of a free europe must be re-dreamed. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the conditions for the accession of new member states are met.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the draft european parliament resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies: annual growth survey 2015. the report is a farce in that it assumes that the european economy is both influenced and controlled by the commission in its own right. it is also stated in the hybris that the european political institutions have superior knowledge of the economic management of the european economy. and if these considerations of principle are not enough to justify a rejection, the report does at least welcome the juncker 'investment plan for europe' as an important instrument for boosting private and public investment.
in writing. ‒ with the 2015 annual growth survey, we are proving that the european union is capable of taking action with concrete measures for all those who are particularly affected by the financial crisis: the marginalized, the unemployed, the hopeless. the draft prieto report was marked by pessimism; the economic and social situation was depicted as hopeless. this is true for some, but not all eu member states. in order to strike the necessary balance, i tabled 33 amendments, almost all of which have been accepted or incorporated into compromises. the report makes some claims which the epp cannot share, such as the introduction of social stabilizers, which indirectly calls for a pan-european unemployment insurance. what sounds like solidarity is actually a billion-dollar transfer. collective bargaining is still conducted by the social partners in the member states, not at european level! nor is it true that the austerity measures imposed by the eu have led to a deterioration in employment and social conditions throughout europe. our member states have had different experiences! where reforms have taken place - in spain, portugal, ireland - there is once again a legitimate prospect of growth and sustainability.
in writing. ‒ mr president, madam commissioner,ladies and gentlemen,economic growth is driven by business and businesses create jobs:this is why it is important in europe to have an employment-friendly environment where people feel good about starting a business and putting their business ideas into practice. to support this, financial incentives can come, for example, through microcredit from the relevant eu programmes. the member states can also help to promote the change towards more entrepreneurship: efficient administration is just as important as simple and fast company registration. but stable public finances are also important. we must therefore keep repeating that we must respect the stability and growth pact. the stability and growth pact prevents member states from becoming over-indebted. this creates financial leeway in national budgets. the left wing of the house invents new exceptions almost every day, why something should not be included in the calculation of budget deficits. we can't let that happen. i therefore ask the commission to ensure that this basic idea of the pact remains visible as a common thread for the subsequent country-specific recommendations in the european semester. thank you , sir .
in writing. ‒ the common and valuable concern to protect children from sexual abuse is at the heart of this resolution, but it is surrounded by a bitter veil. i support the motion because it is too important. i have doubts about the legal basis of parliament's demands. the eu's criminal jurisdiction is limited to particularly serious crime with a crossborder dimension. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of minors against sexual exploitation. the mere fact that data are transferred from one member state to another is not sufficient to fulfil the criterion of 'cross-border'. i see a parallel with the american federal legislator who, by reinterpreting the commerce clause, has acquired unacceptable powers. in particular, i reject the required 'partnership cooperation ... between law enforcement agencies, judicial authorities, information and communication technology companies, internet service providers, web hosting providers, social media companies, banks and ngos'. this is the beginning of total surveillance under the guise of protecting children. i also do not see why eu action is necessary. i cannot imagine that there are criminal law systems in the eu that do not adequately protect children and fail to take into account the context of modern media. violation of the principle of subsidiarity
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the assassination of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov and the state of democracy in russia (2015/2592 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we social democrats are appalled by the murder of boris nemtsov and we mourn with his family and friends and with all those who want to open up russia and work for the people of russia to live in a more democratic society with more civil liberties. we condemn the cowardly murder, the murderers and especially their accomplices. and we urge the russian government to not only thoroughly but above all transparently investigate this crime. we do not engage in speculation, but we know that such things always happen when the environment invites them. the incredible propaganda machine, the vilification of dissenters, the nationalist tendencies in government and state and the ngo legislation - foreign agent - are just four examples of how to create an atmosphere that then condones such acts. so if you are rightly appalled by the murder of boris nemtsov, you must not stop at condolences, but must work for unreserved education and above all want to change the conditions of life. that means that it must advocate for a free, open dialogue between its citizens, for media freedom and for democracy and an atmosphere of tolerance. we in the european parliament, who want to support such a development, should make our views clear, but also in a form that will allow for a free and open dialogue in the future, so that we can make a contribution.
blue-card question. – colleague, i would like to ask whether you would be prepared for your group also to agree to the statement that we should honour the memory of the murdered mr nemtsov also by clearly denouncing the environment of hate that has been created against russian opposition figures by the kremlin?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not my group has been very much in favour of having this debate after the murder of boris nemtsov. we are convinced that the courageous boris nemtsov, who paid for his political courage with his life, deserves this debate and more. we feel we have to take the grief of his family seriously, that we have to encourage his frightened friends. i think that the resolution we are going to adopt today covers some of that. but why did boris nemtsov have to die? the crisis is rooted mainly in the fact that putin has started an insanely aggressive, for our country and many citizens deadly policy of war against ukraine. this is what boris nemtsov said in an interview with russian media just hours before his death. clearly, those who are trying to bring the truth to the fore in russia are again in great danger. at the funeral, there was a poster that read: "propaganda kills! which one of us is next? other this is the challenge facing the european union. president putin has taken his country back to the past, oppositionists are considered traitors, they are treated as dissidents again today. it's an incredible leap back in time. glasnost and perestroika when was that? that's a quarter of a century ago! i can only agree with mr van baalen that we must find a suitable course towards russia, towards the leadership. but we should also do our best to keep our contacts with civil society alive, because our policy is directed against the regime of president putin, but not against russia.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr schaffhauser, i regret that i am taking a stand for positions that are foreign to you: for parliamentary democracy, for tolerance, for pluralism, for freedom of expression and the media, for not creating a climate of fear, for not hanging posters in a city declaring people free of birds because they are traitors to their country. these were all positions of boris nemtsov. i do not expect any other statement from you, who is said to be the money carrier between putin and le pen, as your speech is probably part of the fee you received from putin for your party. i just want to express that here an atmosphere in a country is possible ... (interruptions by mr schaffhauser without a microphone) mr. schaffhauser, i have the problem that i can't hear you with or without headphones, because i can never understand your statements anyway! we must make it clear that an atmosphere is being created which encourages such crime. when someone is declared free of birds and called a traitor to the fatherland, then such murders happen. and coincidentally, these murders are always directed against opposition politicians. and it just so happens that the perpetrators are always from the caucasus. and, coincidentally, you never find the people behind it. this is a system we cannot accept, and it must be branded. boris nemtsov has spoken out in favour of territorial integrity. he has spoken in favour of russia's adherence to the treaties that this country has concluded. and he paid for it. we have here a man who we have to honor as a democrat, as a brave man, as a man who stood up for the rights of others. i bow to that!
i'm not going to say anything. you were approached directly. the rules of procedure now give you the opportunity to reply for half a minute to the point raised by mr brok.
i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal. we shall now continue the debate in memory of boris nemtsov. (interruption by schaffhauser) mr. brok, would you like to take the stand now? there you go, sir.
i have stated a fact, i have stated that it is being said that you played a role in these financial transactions of putin and le pen. i have expressed nothing else.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in russia, it is not putin's political friends who are being murdered, but his political opponents. it is tragic that the russian government has created a domestic political atmosphere in which the authorities cannot be trusted to conduct the investigation into the murder of boris nemtsov in accordance with the law. doubts remain, no matter what is claimed, also because the president personally has lied publicly several times in the past year. we honor boris nemtsov by standing together for the democratic values he stood for. this means that we stand together as europeans in our attitude towards russia, in our attitude towards ukraine, in our attitude of support for a democratic civil society, in our support for the people who dare to take to the streets and stand up for a different russia, despite the great pressure.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have been in a foreign and security policy position for about 12 months now - it is the anniversary of the annexation of crimea - that we have not had before. this is a completely new situation in the east of our continent, in north africa, in syria and iraq, a development which makes it necessary for us to have a new debate on our priorities. this is why we support the idea of the high representative for a european security strategy and why we want to be part of it. the european parliament has identified four new priorities for the common foreign policy: our first priority is to preserve and strengthen the european peace order. this is necessary after russia has broken international law. we must find out how this international law can be brought back into force in europe. we must make this clear: it is not just about ukraine, but about security as a whole. the sanctions must therefore be maintained until the minsk agreements are respected and implemented and ukraine is able to effectively control its own borders. we must also review the neighbourhood policy as a whole, as envisaged, in order to make it more operational and also to set political priorities. secondly, we see that the stabilization of our southern neighbourhood is also of great importance. i think it's right that it doesn't have to be one, because it requires different methods, different goals, but we have to bring the regional players on board. if we see that this means in particular that the islamic states here also have to take on their own responsibility to put their region in order, and we can help in this, then this seems to me to be an important task, as king abdullah put it very convincingly in this house yesterday. thirdly, we must strengthen the international order: the question of climate protection, the reform of the un security council, compliance with the non-proliferation treaty - this includes, for example, the negotiations on iran, which are an important part of such a strategy. but other actors, like china and russia, must also take responsibility for bringing about a stable and secure global order. fourthly, we must also change our internal working methods and structures. i believe we can achieve greater coherence between the different policy areas, actors and levels. the establishment of the foreign service is a big step, but there is still room for improvement. but i think it is good that the high representative is taking her role as vice-president of the commission seriously and we now have the opportunity, through the formation of a cluster, to make good use of the hybrid situation of the different competences of the european union's external relations and to move closer to our objective. but that also means we have to keep our agreements here. it is not just the information structures, but also the composition of the staff - one third, two thirds, even in the higher positions, even in the ambassadors - which seems not to have been respected in recent years. but i think it is also important to strengthen our common security and defence policy. the proposal to set up a european army is a good visionary objective. but we must now, for example in view of the summit, make sure that we take advantage of the possibilities provided for in the lisbon treaty and finally set in motion permanent structural cooperation. the questions relating to the strengthening of the ead, the questions relating to procurement and research, seem to me to be important points for improving our capabilities. the member states of the european union spend three times as much as russia on defence and have more troops than the united states of america, but with far fewer operational results. our taxpayers have a right to the creation of european synergies that will generate more revenue for less money. we therefore ask you, madam high representative, to present this report to the summit in june and to come forward with concrete proposals.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i repeat here the words of pope francis: we are in the middle of world war iii, but it is a war of conciliation. there are economies that have to fight wars to survive. so they make and sell weapons. now mr juncker wants to show his teeth and demands the willingness to protect the so-called european values with a european army. i don't want to debate whether such an army is even realistic. but the question is what european values are meant here. i think it is about fighting and implementing neoliberal policies. but it does not improve the lives of people in countries such as our southern or eastern neighbours. for the southern neighbours, this meant that the trade deficit jumped to more than 20 times between 2006 and 2010. the resulting impoverishment was also a trigger for the arab uprisings of 2011. the heavy industry in the eastern regions of ukraine will probably perish, and not all the people there will benefit from the free trade zone. these are also causes of conflict, but they are not the only ones. but the report lacks any criticism of its own policies. poverty is and remains one of the main causes of conflict in the world. the report complains about a deterioration in the safety environment. but the military is not a repair shop for a failed foreign policy.
i have to say, madam president, mrs mogherini, you said that the eu can and must do more in foreign and security policy. i can't agree more. president juncker said in an interview at the weekend that the eu was not taken seriously in the world. if you travel outside europe, that is partly true. whether in beijing or new delhi or johannesburg or brasilia, the eu is not visible, and it is not effective. you also said that in addition to economic relations, we need a comprehensive political agenda with our strategic partners. we need dialogue and negotiations for this world order, based on fixed rules, whether it be on the preservation of peace, the preservation of human rights, and this year also on the preservation of the climate on the way to paris. i would also encourage you not to forget the asian boom region, in addition to all the crises on your doorstep. we haven't had a china strategy in ten years. we need a new strategy for this great country, to work with this country as well.
i have to say, madam president, in this report, as a former air force officer, i hear the voice of the cold war again, and i am very surprised, because that time is thirty years ago. the report omits the fact that the geostrategic situation has changed completely in the last thirty years. thirty years ago, it was the warsaw pact that embraced nato and the eu-europe. but 30 years later, nato is embracing russia, and the warsaw pact is no more. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. that's what i miss about this house, that it's even being debated. mr brok's language is that of the cold war and the atlantic. i do not understand at all how anyone can demand that the eu should continue to cooperate closely with nato in the future, because this will lead to a power from outside the universe, namely the united states of america, taking control of europe.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, honourable members, i will take some of the points that were raised, starting with some difficulties in our common foreign and security policy, which some of you mentioned. first of all, as in the report, many of you came back on the issue of lack of coordination. on the european union level and internal-external policies among different european union institutions: some of you might remember that at the beginning of october i started my hearing in the committee on foreign affairs by saying that i would be satisfied if at the end of my five years in office i could hear that services were working with me as the european union, instead of as the commission, the council, the eas and so on. i think that is still very much a challenge. i cannot pretend that i have changed that after four months in office. it will need much more time, much more effort, but i can tell you that, when it comes to a stronger coordination between the work we do in the council, the work we do in the commission, the work we do with the european parliament, we are making very relevant steps. i would not call it a revolution but it is something that is close to it in cultural terms. think of the work we have done on the internal—external coordination. i think that it will be the first time that foreign ministers are going to discuss migration – that will be on monday – with commissioner avramopoulos. if you see the innovation that the report calls for – this commissioners’ group on external action – you see the core group that was established as something already ambitious. it has five commissioners as a starting point, but at the last meeting on 4 march (last week) and the previous one, and the previous previous one we had ten commissioners around the table. this included vice-presidents: vice—president georgieva when we discussed the budget, on how we prioritise inside the commission and the proposal on how we use the budget on heading 4; and vice-president šefčovič when we discussed energy or climate. if i could list all the different elements we have started to work on together on the commission side in these four months, which is not an enormous amount of time, i can mention climate, energy, research, economic cooperation and development, culture – that was mentioned by silvia costa – security and counter-terrorism – here again we have been putting together all the different aspects and the tools available – migration, trade, and obviously development, humanitarian aid and our enlargement policies. obviously this is a start. obviously we still have a lot of difficulties and obviously we will still be fighting against a lot of difficulties but i think if i see these first four months in the light of the next four and a half years i can say i am encouraged by the steps that we have been able to take. when it comes to another difficulty that some of you have mentioned – some people in this room have said that member states do not and cannot share a common policy. well, you will be surprised to see how much member states are sharing when it comes to deciding together. i always give this example: take the doorstep statements that the ministers make when they go to the foreign affairs council and you will see all shades of different positions but the important thing to me is that we go through a process, not only in the meetings themselves but actually an everyday process, so that when it comes to take decisions we are all united. all the 28. obviously i know very well we still have a long way to go. in october, i said in front of the foreign affairs committee that my challenge is to shape a common foreign and security policy, one that is felt to be owned by everyone in europe, because i know we are not there yet. i know that very well. what i see is that crises around us, starting from the crisis in ukraine, are telling us, are telling our member states, are telling the governments, are telling the national parliaments, are telling your fellow parliamentarians in your respective member states that, yes, we do have an added value when we manage to decide and to act together as europeans. if we did not have a european common reaction on the ukrainian crisis, think of that. think of where we would be here today. even the member states that are traditionally, historically more reluctant to see the added value of the common foreign and security policy at european level, i think after this past year have realised very well that a european common foreign and security policy is an added value also for their own national interests. obviously we have to make this emerge more and more. it is not only but it is also a matter of narrative and visibility, as someone has mentioned. it is a matter of making the common interest and the common added value emerge. this will take time. this will take respect and i am fully ready to go through this process, taking the time and taking the respect we will need to have everybody on board. everybody! i would not exclude anyone from the exercise because i see in everyday work that there is a need for that and there is also the willingness for that. then obviously we all have internal national debates, we all have internal national electoral constraints and i understand that sometimes this reflects also in the debates in this room, which is natural. the real substance of the process is that we know, all of us, that without common real foreign policy each of our member states will not have the means to respond to the challenges we have in front of us. many of you mentioned, and this comes up also when we talk about security and defence, a sentence that was used by president juncker in an interview a couple of days ago, which is something i think he has said in front of this parliament in july. i was still a minister at the time, but that was something that i think he has always said throughout his whole life. what i think – and what i have also discussed not only with him but with many others – is something that i know this parliament shares: that finally we have to use the tools that we have when it comes to common defence policy. use the treaties, use the articles of the treaties that we are currently not using because we still need to build the political will that will allow us to use our full potential. i think that here we have a space to develop and to use in the coming years. this will be difficult in some national endeavours for sure but, again, crises around us tell us very clearly that the provisions that are there in the lisbon treaty are not there by chance. they are there because we need to use them, in strong cooperation with nato, and not only with nato but with other international organisations, starting with the un and regional organisations. many of you mentioned a series of issues that it would probably be too long to go into but i will just underline a couple of them. starting from the balkans, i will take this opportunity to correct myself. i always refer to fyrom. it happens sometimes, especially when you deal 24/7 with crises and jetlag, that you make a mistake, and i apologise for that because i always stick to the formal, official recognised name and i discussed that with the greek authorities as well. starting from the balkans, where we now tend not think of it as a foreign policy dimension because it is part of our family somehow, this is the success story we can tell. exactly 20 years after srebrenica, look how much the investment in peace and european integration and regional integration can bring in terms of good results to the region. i share the view that somebody expressed: we also need to be self-confident and highlight the positive results of our policies. i will underline latin america. some of you asked for a relaunch of relations. i am fully committed to that. i started working with celac in view of the first summit in june. i have been to the celac summit in january and i will be visiting latin america again before june. this is an area where a little bit of our serious, committed cooperation can develop a huge potential for both. we have to do the same in africa and in asia. there is not a single place in the word where we can afford not to invest politically. we have the time, the energy and the resources to do so. another two elements i would like to underline. yes, on cyber security. many of you mentioned the need to give more attention to cyber security in our strategies and in our work, something we are already doing, in cooperation with nato as well, and on strategic communication. we had that discussion just before we took this issue onto the agenda on russia. working on strategic communication, not only on russian but on arabic, is key to our policy. this might sound a small element but to me it is a very important element as a sign of strategic thinking and acting, in view of the cultural outreach that we need so much and of which his majesty the king of jordan was reminding us yesterday. if we want to build partnerships and cooperation and tools of partnership and cooperation we have to start from this very natural basis, which is also the mutual cultural respect that is at the basis of a partnership among equals. (applause)
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, madam high representative! i am very grateful for both of your statements. i think that the further look at strategic challenges that mr millán mon has mentioned, with the americas, the intensification of china policy and a stronger focus on india - which has been lacking so far - and the interconnectedness of all policies, is also very important. so is the migration. we can no longer separate internal and external security. how to arrive at a comprehensive approach, how to put these together, is of great importance. we will not be able to remove our concerns about migration in our countries, with the serious consequences it has for political developments, and the false fears and concerns about internal security, if we do not succeed in tackling the causes. the people of africa must have a chance for the future, civil wars must be prevented. if this is not resolved, we will not stop the flood of refugees, we should see. and this in a region of the world that is considered a paradise of wealth. but let me address one last point - and you have already referred to this in your opening remarks - namely the definition of interests. what interests can be pursued by one of our nation states alone in the fight against terrorism and for peace, in our role as peacemakers in the world and in the question of our trade and the consequences of migration and also climate change? many of our member states still pretend to be able to do this at home. they have a purely national discourse, and they also act in this way when they travel abroad. if we do not understand that we must develop common interests, and if we do not understand that sometimes we have to give up a little bit of our national interests in order to reach common positions, we will not be able to regain sovereignty for our peoples. there is no sovereignty unless you have the strength to stand up for it. no single european country has the real capacity to cope with such crises on its own. the treaty of lisbon therefore calls on the member states to show loyalty in promoting common external security. there's a clause in the contract that says so. we should remember this, and we should remind the governments of the european union of this at times, so that in this way we can better represent the interests of our citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, the high representative, mrs mogherini, and the special representative for human rights, mr lambrinidis! this report is a good, comprehensive overview of the eu's diverse human rights policy areas and makes a wealth of suggestions for improvement. the report also shows where much more effort is needed. in talks with diplomats, with colleagues from other parliaments, we regularly hear the admiration shown for our rule of law and human rights guarantees. but now we also regularly hear criticism of the contradictions in the eu's human rights policy, for example, of a failed european policy of isolation with thousands of refugees every year, whose very lives are being denied. it is shameful that we have not yet found a viable solution to create legal pathways to europe, and that there are no binding commitments on the part of the member states to take in refugees. the report also suggests improvements in the economic and human rights fields. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the convention on the rights of the child, which is a key instrument in the fight against child abuse. the eu should also consider what it can do when human rights violations occur in the implementation of eu policies and what options exist for those affected to turn to the eu institutions. this is a task we should be facing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there is much talk about the centrality of human rights in the eu's foreign policy. but it is not just about third countries, we should also look at where human rights are being violated in eu countries. i am thinking of poland and romania. could we or didn't we want to know that americans were torturing people there? do we know anything more about that? are there other countries where this happens? how is it possible that in austria today, sixty years after the conclusion of the state treaty, people still have to expect prison sentences of up to 15 years for their opinions? how is it possible that in germany there are 13 000 investigations for reasons of opinion every year, that over 1 000 people are in prison for this reason, most of all horst mahler, who is 78 years old, has been there for twelve and a half years and is about to be transferred to a psychiatric hospital? how is it that in greece seven members of parliament have been imprisoned for 18 months without being charged?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the european parliament, the voice of human rights, we commemorate the 56th anniversary of the tibetan uprising of 1959. yesterday tibetan flags flew over tens of thousands of buildings in cities and towns across the european union. we demand freedom of expression, basic human rights and an end to the massive repression of a peace-loving culture! our thoughts are with the 136 tibetans who have sacrificed themselves, as well as the hundreds still imprisoned. the tibet interest group is committed to substantive dialogue between the representatives of his holiness the dalai lama and the chinese government. the only so-called crime of the tibetans is to fight for their own legitimate rights, the preservation of their culture, their language, their spirituality. let us continue to work with full commitment to bring an end to the suffering and humiliation of the tibetan people.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, madam high representative mogherini, you are very welcome. libya is at a crossroads. either the un-backed dialogue between the two opposing political camps leads to an agreement or the country sinks further into chaos. then we have to assume that the radical forces in libya will continue to gain influence. it is feared that jihadist groups in particular will benefit from a continuation of the armed conflict. in the face of this threat, it must be clear that there is no alternative to a negotiated solution to be agreed by the libyans themselves. the international community can, however, support the negotiating process, for example by continuing and upholding the un arms embargo. the eu should also be clearly opposed to external military intervention, including by states in the region. the countries in the region which are seeking dialogue should be supported, in particular tunisia and algeria. in conclusion, i would like to stress that a lasting solution to the conflict in libya requires that violations of human rights and international humanitarian law be punished, as we called for in our resolution of january. the eu should support actions to uncover and document the crimes committed both during and after the fall of the gaddafi regime. the creation of a special united nations commission of inquiry should also be supported, and adequate resources must be made available to the international criminal court to work on libyan cases referred by the security council. allow me to use the remaining time to thank you, high representative, for your continued and intensive involvement in this conflict.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the high representative and the vice-president! this is one of those cases that causes a little helplessness in us. we have, as elsewhere, violent groups who are not prepared to negotiate because they consider anything that has a different opinion to be worth destroying. that's the drama of the situation. we must see that they have also been funded by other states or are still partly funded and that makes the matter so difficult. i also think that we should support egypt a little bit here. i think the reaction in relation to the coptic christians is right. we should also see that this has a big impact on the refugee problem. since 1 january, 9 500 migrants have attempted to cross the mediterranean from libya. that's 70% more than last year. we see the cold-heartedness of the smugglers, who force refugees with kalashnikovs onto the fragile boats. i think that in these areas, we may also need to get closer to the shores of failed states to stop these smugglers from dealing with people in this way and causing new deaths. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i think we should try to make contact here and see that the issues of the refugee wave and the drama of survival of these people are at the centre and that we must therefore also move closer to the coast to take our responsibility, as was done a few years ago. perhaps we should remember to do the same for the protection of refugees.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you very much for allowing me to speak. the situation in libya and what awaits us after the winter storms in the mediterranean have passed, we cannot assess at this stage. many people do not travel to us in broken boats voluntarily, but are now forced to partly board these boats. i therefore ask the following question: what concrete measures do you envisage to prevent thousands of people from dying in the spring because they will not reach the shores of the european union? how can we stop the boats from leaving and try to find an agreement to take orderly measures, including repatriation measures, and where possible, launch a range of measures to prevent mass deaths?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the jordanian king, in his impressive speech yesterday, reminded us that the fight against terrorism in the name of islam is primarily the task of the muslim states. but since terrorism is a global problem, it can only be solved globally, by talking to each other. and only by working together can we really achieve that. the declaration of intent for enhanced cooperation between the arab league and the european union was signed to develop this strength. we welcome improved cooperation between the arab league and us, not only in the field of counter-terrorism but also in other areas. there are many areas where we can only achieve something together. we must cooperate more closely, particularly in the areas of early warning systems and crisis prevention. the internet and especially social networks facilitate contacts across borders and allow the dissemination of propaganda without a physical base. the only way to meet this challenge is internationally. the phenomenon of foreign fighters or travelling fighters can only be tackled in cooperation with the states that are the targets for these fighters. it's about both fighting terrorism and strategies for how we can help those who have left and reintegrate them into society. we welcome the fact that there are already many, very different initiatives across europe to combat extremism and promote tolerance. terrorism in the name of islam is a serious threat, both in the eu and in the arab states. we can only successfully combat this threat by working together with muslim communities in the eu and muslim states outside the eu. this common ground is also needed to ensure that the fight against terrorism is not misused to incite against islam. each side has its own homework to do. it also means that we must not only prosecute criminals, but also prevent radicalisation in the first place. this means that the arab states will be much better able than before to prevent arms supplies to terrorist organizations and the financing of terrorism from these countries themselves. it also means guaranteeing human rights.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. so this is about security cooperation. that's not bad as such. the arab league, to which we are sometimes affiliated, is a group of countries where state terrorism and human rights violations are a daily occurrence. i say quite frankly: security cooperation, which is ultimately negotiated with such undemocratic despotisms, is not appropriate. and do you really think that because of a few insipid and somewhat naive points on human rights in the resolution, even one egyptian policeman will stop trampling on human rights? are our security partners really countries like bahrain, where internet activists are sent to jail for a single tweet? is saudi arabia our friend, even though they publicly flog and behead people? and then this memo isn't even really public. so, i have to tell you, quite frankly, this is not security cooperation, but complicity. because you sell weapons and surveillance equipment to the partners. and human rights are a secondary issue here. what is really at stake is the state's reasoning according to the motto "whoever wears a uniform can be trusted a priori".
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this declaration of intent was negotiated by officials and diplomats. no member of parliament was involved. and tonight, at 10 p.m., we're going to be talking and discussing this matter with 20 colleagues and 100 interpreters. the ecr group has tabled an excellent motion for a resolution, and we are the only ones who have suggested a balance between freedom and security in response to the terrorist threat. because a society cannot give up its freedom, it cannot deprive itself of its freedom. otherwise, the terrorists have already won. we should learn from the mistakes made in the united states. and the fact that the greens have submitted petitions to have this removed shows once again that they are good teletubbies on youtube, but not pillars of a liberal social order. i wish you the best of luck in implementing this memorandum of understanding.
i have to say, madam president, we have found that poverty and lack of prospects lead to terrorism. the eu stands for values, for standards. but any confidential cooperation with the arab league is doubtful. the last 70 years, yes, the last 500 years, actually speak against it. i think that we can be pioneers, we can be an example, when it comes to human rights. we still have refugee camps in jordan and syria, after 60 or 70 years, where hundreds of children have starved to death in syria in the past year. i think that action is needed here, and that we as the eu have the primary responsibility over the un. it is funny, or actually shameful, that we are constantly getting upset about others and demanding respect for human rights and actually not respecting human rights at all.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, anti-semitism, islamophobia and racism are no new phenomena in europe, and they are an internal problem – not something brought to us from the outside. this is a problem that we have to deal with inside the european union and, sadly, these attacks on people are on the rise. jews are being attacked, and even schools cannot operate without police or army protection. certainly, this sort of protection is nothing that generates a feeling of security among people. quite the opposite: it shows how much insecurity there is. we see in europe that parties are being founded on the basis of islamophobia and of racism. it is appalling to see that parties and politicians are able to gain votes with those ideas, and equally appalling to see that there are politicians trying to do exactly that. i believe we all have to stand together against anti-semitism, against islamophobia, against racism and against xenophobia, and we have to do so very clearly, and be prepared to do so at every moment, in order not to accept any form of mistreatment of human beings. it is therefore important that we do not legitimise the arguments of the extreme right or give them any space to manoeuvre, because in europe we have a lot of space for different religions and we have a lot of space for people from different origins. europe is built on the idea that we live together, that we progress together and that we are all working together for human rights, peace and understanding. europe has no space for anti—semitism, islamophobia, or racism – and we all need to make sure that it stays that way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to join claude moraes in his protest against a decision by the bureau to put on the agenda at 11 o'clock at night key issues such as anti-semitism, islamophobia and the fight against extreme violence and intolerance in our society. we wanted to make a collective, cross-party sign against intolerance in our society that the public could see, because we are all in agreement and we don't need to tell each other that at 11 o'clock at night. because at 11 o'clock at night, there's not a single journalist left. i would ask that this be taken into account in the bureau's decisions in future. because we're going to stop working at 11 noon tomorrow. i therefore ask myself whether it is very sensible to discuss this subject between 11 and 12 o'clock tonight. to the point: prejudice against jews, hate speech by imams calling for the death of non-believers and the perpetuation of the sexual availability of women to men, people who denigrate muslims in general, radicalization of people from many different backgrounds and for many different reasons - we have a wave of intolerance moving through europe, we have a wave of radicalization moving through europe. we must take consistent steps together towards positive integration, towards a strategy of mutual understanding, towards a strategy of dialogue between religions and tolerance between believers, towards mutual acceptance in society. i would urge that in all our various actions we take, we take concrete steps to promote a corresponding tolerance of genuine species within our societies and member states and to hold to account those who try to do the opposite.
i have to say, madam president, in my hometown of dresden, a few years ago, an egyptian muslim woman was stabbed to death with 17 knives in the middle of a courtroom. the dresden synagogue must be protected from vandalism by the police every day. anti-semitism and islamophobia are unfortunately common forms of racism. and they must be fought with the knowledge of it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the most perverse form was auschwitz. the lesson of auschwitz is to ensure that the exclusion of any human being is fought and that the human rights of every human being are truly fought for and defended. let us begin to eliminate the social and economic causes of racism. social cohesion must be taken seriously again in the eu. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east, and we are therefore calling on the commission to take action to deal with this situation. so we have to clean up this house too!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let's talk about facts and figures. the islamic state has threatened christians, killed them, burned scriptures, destroyed historical monuments. boko haram has threatened christians and kidnapped children. i think it is difficult to speak of individual perpetrators. we had choirs of screaming women outside our parliament in brussels, shortly after jews were shot at point-blank range in brussels. in this respect, you simply have to let the numbers speak for themselves. of course, the number of terrorist attacks has increased. but unfortunately, 99% of all terrorist attacks are against jews. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this phenomenon, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. we should not be tolerant or flatter the facts, because in this parliament too often perpetrators are made victims and ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the wolffish population is in a disastrous state. this is also the responsibility of those member states which have not behaved responsibly in the past. in the basic regulation, article 12 provides us with an instrument to counterbalance this. we are doing that today with this resolution on the table. i support this, and i support in particular management measures in the form of a multiannual plan to bring stocks above a level which will allow the highest possible yield to be maintained.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank our committee chairman, mr cadec, for taking this parliamentary initiative and for supporting the commission's urgent measures to make them sustainable. sustainability is a very crucial point. mrs. hazekamp, you should read the latest numbers. two thirds of all the stocks we fish in the european union, in our waters, are fished sustainably. this is the result of the last 15 to 20 years. the sea bass has only recently become a native species in our waters and has become attractive for trade. that is why we have a situation where there were no tacs and no quotas for cod at all and it was fished uncontrolled. it's just the way it is. it is necessary, as alain cadec has said, to insist that a multi-species multiannual plan be set up for these fishing areas in the english channel, the celtic sea, the north sea and the eastern atlantic. it is only in this way that we can achieve a reasonable stock afterwards, so that this sea bass can continue to be preserved for us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the annual resolution on the human rights council meeting has once again become a successful policy recommendation to the eu delegation in geneva this year. it contains demands for what is to be achieved by the individual country resolutions, for example on iran, north korea, myanmar and egypt. we also address issues that are new or not yet as regular and prominent on the human rights council's agenda, such as climate change and human rights. the human rights council has already recognised the negative impact of climate change on the living conditions of many people, and it is advisable that the eu or the eu external action service also actively participate in the discussion to find a good definition of climate refugees. on the subject of 'armed drones and autonomous weapons', we call for the development of a common eu position on the conditions under which such weapons may be used in compliance with international humanitarian law, and we call for a ban on the development, production and use of fully automatic weapons which can be used without human intervention. the resolution criticises the fact that authoritarian states are increasingly competing for major international sporting and cultural events in order to shine in international glamour, while at the same time silencing critical voices within the country. we must take this development seriously and we hope that the eu will take up this issue. you have to talk to national and international sports federations, to business and civil society. in concrete terms, this must already happen at the first european games in baku this year and also at the fifa world cup in russia in 2018 and in qatar in 2022. let me conclude by thanking high representative mogherini for participating in the high level segment. this is not a given in their agenda and underlines their appreciation for human rights work.
thank you for the heads-up. ladies and gentlemen, before we get to the vote, i have one announcement to make: the president has decided to suspend mr buonanno's right to daily allowance for seven days as a penalty for disturbing the normal course of the sitting by making offensive and provocative statements. (applause from the centre) this decision was notified to him today. in accordance with rule 167 of the rules of procedure, mr buonanno may lodge an internal complaint with the bureau within two weeks against this decision.
the next item is the voting time.
unfortunately this request has been presented after the deadline and not all political groups are in agreement with that request so i cannot allow it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would suggest that you accept this proposal as an addition to the text already in force. the applicants agree.
after the vote on paragraph 77:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the second part of the german translation, the word jurisisch does not occur at all. that means we're voting on something that doesn't exist in the german translation. i will ask the translation services to complete this.
(the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
oral explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
oral explanations of vote
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was pleased to hear the european parliament's views on this problem and i voted in favour of it. i mean, bad things happen in democratic societies too, and the question is really just how to do the education. it seems that in russia there is a script: politically motivated murders happen, and then a perpetrator is quickly identified, but the real background is not clarified. that is the difference i want to make very clear here, the difference with democratic societies. i am of the opinion that russia should not only clarify this, but also ensure transparency. transparency, by the way, is a hallmark of developed, democratic societies, and this is where russia has a huge catch-up. it was therefore right and important that the european parliament should have spoken on this.
written explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted for the report. i am of course also making a very different explanation of vote from that of my colleague who spoke before me, because, firstly, i believe that we have never done european foreign policy as well as we are doing now. it seems to be partly because of the conditions: we have a commissioner, the high representative for external relations, who does the job. secondly, the european union has a duty to respond to the challenges of our world. you can see it any way you want. in my view, russia is on a bad path. it is quite easy to continue the discussion, but in a consistent and closed manner. i think that the representatives of the european union have so far met this demand at all levels.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ while the report a8-0039/2015 contains many correct points, in particular the commitment to nato and the reference to the importance of national states' own territorial defence. the report rightly stresses the need to combat international terrorism in its various forms. however, i do see problems with articles 33 to 36. the eu has also been involved in the negotiations with russia, which have been in progress for some time. but you hold russia solely responsible. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council of ministers is able to meet the demands of the european parliament. russia should be brought back to the negotiating table without any further loss of face. it would be important to keep open the possibility of winning russia back as a partner of the eu in the medium term. that is why i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ i thank my colleague elmar brok (cdu) for supporting the oral amendment tabled by myself and my colleagues tannock (uk) and jurek (pl) in plenary on the subject of the persecution of christians. our amendment adds what was missing from the report: a word on the responsibility of the member states for the protection of religious freedom in their national external relations. the new paragraph reads: urges eu leaders and member states to ensure the safety and freedom of christians and members of other religious and ethnic minorities, who are increasingly exposed to discrimination, persecution and being targeted; calls on the eeas and the member states to ensure that future bilateral agreements include effective monitoring mechanisms to protect the human rights of religious minorities and to effectively implement the eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion or belief; i did, however, abstain in the final vote. in his very comprehensive report, mr brok also calls for a wide-ranging transfer of competence between member states in the field of foreign and defence policy. i do not share the idea or the tendency that the governments of the member states should increasingly close their foreign ministries and move their military headquarters to brussels.
oral explanations of vote
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report is not a report on the environment, but on the environment. nevertheless, the practical implementation - especially in the way we shape our foreign policy - is thought-provoking. we should go back inside and look at the results sometimes. i would remind you of the so-called african spring: did we really achieve an improvement in human rights there at the end? i think that this means that we must be consistent in our demands and proportionate in our implementation. that means also proportionality in the dialogue with existing governments. because there's an old saying: "good intentions are the opposite of good deeds". we have a lot of catching up to do. secondly, as mr obmann of the committee on petitions said, we still have some catching up to do in this respect within the european union. we have to take care of that too!
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i reject this report. it is an incoherent series of topics that have nothing to do with human rights violations in the world. in reviewing the report, i found that the eu even has its own special representative for human rights, a costly welfare post for a former member of the government, in this case stravos lambrinidis, a socialist from greece. the european parliament also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon by terrorists. the ep is calling on the world health organisation to define disease patterns not according to the state of medical research but according to political guidelines. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. i do not agree with all that and that is why i voted against this resolution.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ this resolution expresses its opinion on an agreement signed on 19 january 2015 by the eu foreign minister and the secretary-general of the league of arab states. i have been involved in the negotiations on behalf of my group on this resolution, and there are some specific points: parliament reiterated the need to maintain a balance between peace and security in the response to terrorist threats and to ensure that measures are implemented in accordance with the rule of law and fundamental rights. because a society that deprives itself of its freedom out of fear is embracing the strategy of terrorists. 2. the rights of religious minorities are inseparable from respect for other fundamental human rights and freedoms, such as the right to liberty, security, equal opportunities for men and women and freedom of expression. the league of arab states and its member states, the eu foreign ministry in brussels and the governments of the eu member states are called upon to protect religious minorities in the arab world and to fully implement the eu guidelines on the promotion and protection of freedom of religion and belief. the green group was the one who put forward motions for deletions on the first point. but they didn't get away with it. i voted for this resolution.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 1.45 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 12 march 2015.
ladies and gentlemen, we are all deeply shocked and appalled by the terrible news that reached us from france yesterday. the plane crash in the french alps has shocked us all deeply. the cause of this serious accident is still unknown, but the plane, which crashed in the mountains, had 150 people on board, including six crew members and a group of schoolchildren from the federal republic of germany, from haltern in north rhine-westphalia: 16 young people who were in spain with their teachers on an exchange trip died. an entire city in my home country is in shock. and all those people from other countries - from spain, from turkey, from other countries - who have suffered, certainly have our sympathy. the same applies to the victims of the terrible terrorist attack in the bardo museum in tunis. the background to this terrible terrorist attack, the fanatical fundamentalism that has no respect for the lives of others, is not new to us. we have seen this happen again and again in the last few months, and it is shocking. once again, our thoughts and feelings are with the relatives, friends, partners and families of the victims. the relatives of the people who lost their lives in tunis and the relatives of the victims of that terrible plane crash in france yesterday, who now need strength in these difficult hours and days - all those people who have been badly beaten by fate - should be sure that in this difficult time the members of the european parliament, that our institution in full solidarity and compassion with them, will begin the session with a moment of silence. i would ask you to rise from your seats! (parliament adopted the resolution)
the minutes of the meeting of 12 march were distributed. is there any objection?
mr gollnisch, i'm not going to let you go. first of all, you're wrong. your remarks will be noted in the minutes. moreover, legal inquiries which i must initiate because of serious suspicions of violations of our rules and the laws of the french republic by me are not to be regarded as political acts, but it is my duty to investigate this suspicion of serious crimes and violations of the rules of the european parliament without regard to the person. that's what i did, that's all. (applause from the centre) (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the competent greek authorities have sent me a request for the waiver of the immunity of mr theodoros zagorakis. the competent german authorities have sent me two requests for waiver of mr udo voigt's immunity. pursuant to rule 9 of the rules of procedure, these motions are referred to the committee on legal affairs.
i have not heard of any changes in the composition of the group so far. i must therefore answer your question in the negative. i cannot confirm that mrs atkinson has left the group.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 12 march 2015 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the sitting is adjourned until 11 p.m. the commission's statement on the european neighbourhood policy is to be postponed to a later meeting. the statement by the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy on the recent terrorist attacks in tunisia will be the first item on the agenda at 7 p.m. after the vote. the statement may be followed by a group discussion. the resolution on international roma day, anti-gypsyism in europe and the commemoration of the genocide of the roma during the second world war is put to the vote at the april 1st session. is there any objection to these amendments?
mr. courthouse, please wait a moment. we're not there yet. i have now referred to all the points which have been agreed between the groups. the reports that the judiciary committee has ordered are coming in. i'll give you the floor then. i would like to ask, first of all, whether there are any objections to the four points i have just mentioned here: extension until 11 p.m., neighbourhood policy later, mrs mogherini at 7 p.m. and roma day at the april 1 meeting. that's not the case. (parliament adopted the amendments) the legal affairs committee has sent me four reports on the immunities of colleagues. these are the reports of chrysogonos, zwiefka, regner and duda. in accordance with rule 9 (8) of the rules of procedure, these reports - as has been the case so far - will be put to the vote this evening. i now give the floor to mr verhofstadt.
mr. courthouse! you cannot bring the immunity waiver procedure up for debate here. you must come to your proposal!
mr. courthouse! first of all, your request relates to mrs regner's report and not to any other reports. i assume you're referring to this one report. that is what i understood you to say. if you ask for referral back to committee, you must do so 24 hours before the start of the plenary session, or you must do so immediately before the vote. that means i cannot put this motion to the vote now. we shall put it to the vote after the debate on the international day of the roma. i would therefore encourage you to put forward this motion again before the vote. only then can we refer the matter back to committee. i am sure that the house will agree that we should put the four reports - chrysogonos, zwiefka, regner and duda - which are scheduled for voting at 7 p.m. first.
mr. courthouse! you have to read the texts very specifically and precisely. article 188 (2) provides that at least 40 members or a political group may request a referral back immediately before or during a vote. we are not in the voting stage, but i am just setting the voting time. the voting time will begin at 7 p.m. under rule 188 (2), 40 members or your group may then request referral back. you can try again now, but i'm not doing it now.
mr. courthouse! put your hearing aid on. i quote the article you mentioned because it is a very wide-ranging process: article 188 (1): referral back to committee may be requested by a political group or by at least 40 members when the agenda is adopted or before the debate is opened. that's what you were referring to. this is the present state, the present moment. we are in the process of setting the agenda. you can ask for a transfer back then, you're right. but the article continues: the intention to make such a request must be notified to the president at least 24 hours in advance. (interruption by mr verhofstadt: 'paragraph 2, mr president!') the president of the council said that the commission had not yet taken a decision on the matter. but you didn't. (interruption: "this is bureaucracy!") no, that is not bureaucracy, that is the rules of procedure to which we all have to adhere, including myself. i 'll say it again . you can ask to have this report returned before the voting starts at 7 p.m. and now we move on to the agenda. (interruption by mr verhofstadt: this is a bureaucratic procedure. i didn't know that you were a bureaucrat, but ok. mr verhofstadt, you are a member of the committee on the rules of procedure. i am very surprised that the chairman of a group which is otherwise known for insisting that the rules of procedure be observed should speak of bureaucracy when the president is applying the rules of procedure. i reject that in the strongest possible terms. someone with your political experience knows i'm right. but i understand your political distress. the commission
the ecr group would like to put a debate on the council and commission statements on the resilience of european monetary union on the agenda for this afternoon, without a resolution. mr lucke asked to speak on the grounds of the request.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to thank you for your words of condolence and remembrance at the beginning of this sitting. we have indeed asked to have a debate on the subject of the resilience of monetary union and we ask to be able to have this debate after the statement by the european council and the commission. the reason is as follows: the possibility of greece leaving the euro is being discussed everywhere in the public and in the media - except in the european parliament. it is incomprehensible that this should not be an issue here, but it is clear in some ways that there is a difficulty in approaching this issue because there is no legal possibility of withdrawal. this means that any arrangements that may be made for the withdrawal are made behind closed doors opaque, in secret . this means that the public has no way of evaluating in any way how it would be affected. it is not clear how a withdrawal would proceed if it were to proceed in an orderly fashion, as we all hope. we should discuss this here. we should also discuss whether there should be rules governing such a withdrawal, should it occur.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question of the resilience of monetary union depends to a large extent on compliance with the stability and growth pact. the central point of the pact is to achieve a balanced budget, at least in the medium term. we know that failure to meet such a target in several member states has led to bad results. the european parliament is currently working on the so-called berés report, which is essentially concerned with the assessment of the application of the six and two-pack. the epp group therefore supports a serious and in-depth debate on the resilience of monetary union and proposes that the berès report be made a key debate. we welcome the proposal that has been made here, but we recommend that the same debate not be held twice in the same place.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council (meeting of 19 and 20 march 2015) (2014/2943 ((rsp)).
mr lewer, this was a question to mr juncker, but ... (mr juncker made to rise)no, no, no, wait a minute. (laughter)mr kamall, i do not know if it is by chance that in the uk there is an election campaign going on but be careful if you answer now on behalf of the commission, as i do not know how mr cameron will react. (laughter)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we are still debating the council, the summit last week - well, i understand that. i think it is good that in such a debate we have a laugh, and that we can perhaps look at what has been achieved and what has not been achieved from a more distant perspective. mr juncker is quite right: i was one of those who were very disappointed - perhaps least of all by what happened outside the agenda, by the invitation to some particular stakes in the greek question. because my impression was that this small side summit was absolutely necessary to get the tensions that had arisen under control and to get away from a seemingly inevitable 'graccident' on the way to the aid for greece. that was the word that was around this summit that maybe -- without really intending to -- that by making the debates independent, greece will be out of the eurozone, and then we'll be here in a few months just picking up the pieces. i am convinced that such a 'graccident' would have serious political consequences for greece, but also for the european union. i have the impression, sometimes, at the summits i have been attending for the last few years, that as long as we are unable to solve these fundamental problems of the euro and the euro crisis, other big, bold decisions for the european union are being blocked by the fact that this experimentation with the euro crisis is being applied to everything. that brings me to the energy union, mr juncker. i was one of those who responded enthusiastically to what mr tusk had proposed. i think that actually, if you do the energy union right, you can not only deliver optimal climate protection, you can drive innovation in large industrial sectors, you can create security, security of supply, but also security against russia and other countries that we depend on. but you have to do it right! if we put the old energy mix back in the centre, we can forget about this as a future project! in england, thanks to the generosity of european subsidies, nuclear power stations are to be built, and the price of electricity is to be doubled to triple in 45 years. tell me why this is the focus and not renewable energies, which already today in germany ensure that industrial electricity prices are unrivalled low, even if the opposite is always claimed! i would say that the energy union is to me what the coal and steel or euratom treaties were to the founding fathers of the european union. if we're gonna do this today, we need to focus on the new, not the old. you must get bored too! or does a whole new generation of politicians have to come before we can start something new here? the last disappointment, also to mr tusk, is that the sanctions regime against russia has not been linked to the implementation of minsk. it's been postponed to the next summit. this is a weak point of the eu vis-à-vis russia. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. i wanted to take this up, of course, that you said you were afraid of a "grac accident". i share your concerns there. but don't you agree that if a haphazard exit of greece from the euro as an accident is a great danger, then given the fact that greece is not better off today, but worse off than it was five years ago, and given the fact that there is a government that does not want to continue the program, it is high time that an orderly exit of greece from the euro is prepared by the european institutions?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. in the debate on the rightness or wrongness of crisis policy, i have always opposed unilateral austerity in greece. i know why greece is in this situation today. there is a home-grown responsibility, but there is also a responsibility which we have often discussed in this parliament. we have not supported real reforms, but have sold unilateral budget cuts as reforms. that's what led to this situation. i would like to find a way out of greece together with the greeks. that is what my group is proposing. i say to you, mr lucke, that i am against allowing anyone to even think about leaving the eurozone or the european union. because i believe that this is actually the beginning of the disintegration of the european union as a whole. and i don't think about that these days!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european council again focused on the rescue of greece. in addition to all the agreed structures of the european union, an informal group has been formed with mrs merkel and mr tusk, hollande, juncker, draghi and dijsselbloem, who in this composition have taken important decisions over the heads of the others. we have approved new aid to greece, allegedly from unused european structural funds. the commission has even had to loot funds for horizon 2020, for european basic research, for the efsi programme. where are they going to get 2 billion euros all of a sudden? i'm asking for clarification. it's not a small thing! and as always, the problems are only postponed to the future, whether by mr juncker, mr draghi or the other rescue europeans who are not so strict about the laws. the core problem is and remains the euro the greek tragedy, part two writes a local newspaper in northern germany. in any case, the matter must be seriously considered, otherwise all the money that greece has received will be totally lost. that quote is 118 years old. greece was already being lent money back then. we should finally learn from history!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, it is good that the council has dealt with the energy union, because i am firmly convinced that it is a project that can take europe forward. a project where we can also show people that a european union of 520 million people can have a common project, that we can organise progress and advocate prosperity, because the world has changed in recent years. there are over 7 billion of us on this planet. if we want to generate energy security, but also to act on climate protection, and if we want to have a secure but also sustainable energy supply among ourselves, then we can only do this by tackling things together. so let's see what we have in common on this project. i think it is very welcome that the commission has taken this initiative. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action. we are very innovative as a continent. we should also focus on this and ensure that we have clear legislation on this. we should not just talk about it, but we need clear legislation so that investors have security when they invest money in the future in renewable energy, in sustainable forms of energy production. one thing is certain: every euro we spend now will be tied up for 30, 40, 50 years. we must therefore consider what course we are taking for innovation, for a sustainable energy supply and for a sustainable future for all 520 million europeans.
i have to say, madam president, we welcome the fact that the european commission has now taken the first steps to make progress in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance. these steps were overdue, but they are far from sufficient. it is right and absolutely necessary to introduce automatic exchange of information between member states. the member states must not be allowed to speak out. the exchange must be mandatory, regular and verifiable. and it is right and absolutely necessary that we fully implement the oecd global agreements on tax transparency and formally create the right conditions for this. and it is right and absolutely necessary that the commission should take a firm stand on the introduction of a common corporate tax base and restart the legislative process. and it is right and necessary that the commission should review and improve the work of the code of conduct group. it is also right to put the availability of information and multinational companies on the spot. it is not necessary, however, to create an information bureaucracy for the entire business sector. we are putting the real economy and our european businesses at the forefront of economic policy in order to achieve an eu-wide investment drive, job growth and more innovation. we're ruining a lot of things with overloaded reporting. the report is a good example of the need to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. we do not support reporting obligations for the sake of reporting.
i have to say, madam president, illegal but not illegal practices have been tolerated in the eu for far too long in the field of taxation. citizens were often unaware of this, but it was only when the luxleaks revelations came to light a few months ago that they became fully aware of it. citizens have asked why large international companies can negotiate tax rates at the expense of third parties, at their own expense, while paying their taxes honestly. if we want to change this, if we want to stop illegitimate things from happening just like that, then we need transparency. the initiative which the commission has just launched is a first step towards this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we must ensure that any infringement of this will be punishable in the future. only if there are consequences to be feared - of which i am sure - will member states fully comply with their obligation at this point. it is also good that the commission is now proposing that we should set up a central register of tax rulings. it would be important, however, to ensure that it does contain all tax rulings of companies and that this register is accessible not only to the member states of the european union but also to the public, while respecting all tax data protection principles. such a register should be public! the commission's intention to present proposals for a common corporate tax base in june in its second tax transparency package is to be welcomed. but i would also like to encourage them very strongly to take a bold step forward in the question of what we are doing beyond that, the question of the representation of where companies pay their taxes, in country-by-country reporting. transparency is the key to making the future of the illegitimate illegal.
i have to say, madam president, the discussion of the annual tax report is not a routine event this time. we have been discussing the need for transparency and anti-dumping for the last 20 years and nothing has happened. the commission has largely slept through the night. it is only the developments of the last few months that have shown how necessary this is. i therefore welcome the first steps, because the issue of tax evasion and tax avoidance has reached a volume that touches the substance of the honest taxpayers, hundreds of millions of workers and at least 20 million small and mediumsized enterprises. if i see that tax evasion is estimated at up to a trillion euros a year, then action must finally follow! the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the laws of the member states relating to the carriage of goods by road. it is not a question of high-level tax harmonisation, but only of a strategy against tax dumping and tax avoidance in accordance with articles 101 and 109 of the eu treaty, which do not allow unfair competition, including in tax matters.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i would like to say that we are not in favour of the commission's proposal. and to make this clear, our group, like others, wants ukraine to be a sovereign and undivided country. our group also wants ukraine to develop into a country with functioning democratic structures, but also into a country where people can live in social security, political self-determination and democratic freedom, free from the influence of the oligarchs who continue to operate unhindered. and our group also sees the extremely difficult economic situation in which the country and, above all, its people find themselves. we are voting against this because we believe that the economic policy approach to macrofinancial assistance has already failed in the eu, as in greece. we are voting against this because we cannot accept that parliament is organized to avoid a debate on how to deal with the obvious insolvency of ukraine in the future. we also vote against it because we believe that the ukrainian government needs a clear message from this parliament: just like moscow, kiev must refrain from anything that undermines the essence of minsk ii. there can be no military solution in donbass. and perhaps the forced resignation of an elected oligarch by an installed oligarch yesterday is a first step in that direction. i'm not sure i believe it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why we must recognize that what is at stake here is that a country in europe must enjoy freedom and that the economic aid we are going to decide on today - thank you to the commission for the presentation - must be further developed by us so that this people has a chance. this is not a matter of normal macroeconomic aid, but of the freedom struggle of a people which we must support against the right-wing and left-wing supporters of a dictatorship for the freedom of the whole of europe.
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the recent terrorist attacks in tunisia (2015/2633 ((rsp)).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, we discussed the situation in tunisia to some extent in the margins the last time we discussed libya in strasbourg. i remember that, on that occasion, we said that libya was definitely one of the main problems we have to deal with in our neighbourhood, and that this applies not only to european countries but also to libya’s neighbouring countries, starting with tunisia. and here we are, some weeks later, discussing that fragile situation which is even more evident after the attack which took place last week. tunisia is a very special neighbour for us. first of all, it is a neighbour which demonstrates that democracy, freedom and inclusive politics can be the future for the region. i was very impressed by the words of a boy participating in the demonstrations just after the attack in tunis, who said that what terrifies the terrorists is ‘us’ – referring to his generation of tunisian people in that street. the best response we can give to the attack that took place, and to the fragility of tunisia, is to support that boy, that girl, those tunisians of all ages who were in the streets reacting to the attack – just as french citizens, together with others, reacted to the attack in january in paris – all the tunisians, especially the younger generation, who believe in a free, democratic, open future for the country. the day before the attack, we were here in brussels, together with the foreign minister of tunisia, for the association council between the european union and tunisia. we were doing two things. on the one hand, we were discussing, as we do among partners, the positive developments in the country in the last year – the adoption of a new constitution, legislative elections, presidential elections, a unity government – and also the elements that make tunisia fragile still: its youth, which is highly educated but has very low employment rates and very poor employment experiences; the place in society for young people and for young girls in particular in tunisia; the fact that some steps in the democratic process still need to be taken – i am thinking of the local elections due to take place later this year; the differences – the cleavages – between different parts of the country, in which different regions have huge differences of income, social conditions and economic conditions; a sense of disparity within the country (we were even discussing the possibility of promoting twinnings between some regions or cities in tunisia and some regions or cities in the european union); and also the security challenge for the country. the security challenge comes, first of all, from the fact that tunisia is one of the countries, if not the country, in the region where the number of foreign fighters is highest, around 3 000; but it also comes from the situation in libya and the issue of border control. but apart from discussing all these things, we were also doing something else with the foreign minister of tunisia. we were signing cooperation agreements together to open up european union programmes to tunisians: those tunisian young people, enterprises, students or researchers who are willing, or who aspire, to participate in european union programmes in an open way, opening the way for strong cooperation. we also discussed our next high-level visit from the european union after my own visit – i visited tunisia the week after the new government took office in february – and the fact that next tuesday we will visit the country with president tusk. the day after the attack i had a telephone conversation with the prime minister of tunisia. we exchanged condolences – from my side for the tunisian victims and for the attack on the heart of the country, and he expressed his condolences to me in the sense of the european union, as many of the victims were europeans. but he basically told me one thing: that they were doing all they could to react, to make sure that this attack did not interrupt their process, which was still fragile and difficult but which was on track, and that they needed to be supported by friends, and they saw the eu countries as their main friends. i passed this message to the european council which was taking place on the same day, and which opened with a minute of silence. i shared with the heads of state and government the concrete elements of our effort to be a special friend to tunisia in these difficult times, and our effort to increase cooperation. this is about four different levels of increasing cooperation: security cooperation, financial support, support for the economy with concrete, immediate measures, and regional cooperation focusing on libya. let me go quickly through these four issues, starting with security cooperation. obviously security is at the heart of a democracy and of a democratic system, but the converse is also true. security can be sustained only with a genuine democratic process respecting human rights and the rule of law, and we know that one strengthens the other. democracy strengthens security and security strengthens democracy. that is why, from the european union side, we are engaged in three different reviews in tunisia: one on justice, one on border management and the third on security-sector reform. actions on border management will start shortly, and a very ambitious security-sector reform programme, addressing counter terrorism, among other challenges, is now in its very final stage of preparation – this will include eur 25 million. we are also working with our tunisian partners to support the reform of their justice sector. we know that we need to do much more, especially at the present time. the eu counter-terrorism coordinator was in tunis, at my request, just a few days before the attack, and started discussing with his counterparts areas of cooperation, including a counter-terrorism dialogue and a package of measures that will soon be finalised and, we hope, will be implemented in the coming months. it is important that in this process we keep the partnership on a completely equal level and that we discuss and decide everything with our tunisian partners. however, we know that supporting tunisia’s stability requires not only security. it means mainly – and i stressed this in my public messages as strongly as i could – supporting the economic and democratic transition. this is what will make tunisia stronger. how do we do that? first, through financial assistance. since 2011 the european union has more than doubled the initial commitments to tunisia. for last year alone – 2014 – nearly eur 170 million was allocated to tunisia, and micro—financial assistance of up to eur 300 million in loans comes in addition to that. financial allocations for 2015 have not yet been completely decided, but we are working with commissioner hahn to make sure that tunisia gets what it needs and what it deserves, and that is also in our own interests. but beyond financial assistance, there are concrete measures – sometimes even creative measures – that we have to put in place to accompany tunisia along its path of strengthening democracy and the economy. a true progressive integration of the tunisian economy into the european internal market, supporting the economic model that was chosen by tunisia and in the manner and pace suited to its own economy: this could be one element. the european union is ready – and we started discussing this with the new tunisian authorities last month – to start negotiations for a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with tunisia. it is probably also important to give a positive sign to investors, so that they can find ways of supporting economic recovery in the country. this will obviously bring results in the medium and long term, but we also have an urgent need to support tunisia immediately. earlier this year we adjusted our monthly import quotas on olive oil – something very small, but something very important for tunisia – and we can do more in this respect. the commission is also starting to work on tunisia’s application to be associated with the horizon 2020 research programme. these are only examples – and others will follow – of where we can make a difference completely and immediately. the fourth level of cooperation is, obviously, in relation to libya. on one side there is the border issue, on the other side there is the bigger libya issue that affects the situation in tunisia. i expect some speakers will return to that, so maybe i will leave more for my replies in the end, but you know – and we discussed this in strasbourg last time – that we are increasing the level of our commitment and of our engagement in diplomatic work. just two days ago here in brussels, i myself hosted a meeting of 34 mayors from various cities in libya. listening to them, i heard on the one side a desperation that only mayors can understand, facing their own people in very difficult situations. most of those cities were bombed while we were meeting. but on the other side there was a strong, passionate, emotional feeling of needing to move forward and finding the political agreement that could allow libya to restart. that meeting produced good results in terms of concrete cooperation and confidence-building measures, and also an appeal to the political track to produce a result. you know that a plan to establish a new political framework is currently being discussed, not only in rabat but also in tobruk, tripoli and other cities, and i think – and it is also the view of our tunisian friends – that this will be the only way to solve the libyan crisis. let me add one more thing before i finish, and this is about you, honourable members, and tunisia. parliamentary cooperation is also an essential part of the support that tunisia is looking for. it is a country where your engagement can have a huge impact. the two european union electoral observation missions in 2011 and in 2014, and the european parliament contribution to the ongoing eu project assisting the tunisian parliament, were really significant for them, and also for us. i look forward to the establishment of the joint parliamentary committee with tunisia, which is provided for in the action plan for a privileged partnership. the european parliament, by strengthening its links with the new parliament, can certainly play a key role in reinforcing tunisian democracy. i think we all saw the images of tunisian members of parliament singing their hymn inside the parliament during the attack, just as they were working on an anti-terrorism law. our debate today is also our way of standing together with them and saying to all tunisians – not only the members of parliament but starting with them – and to the rest of the world and the region, that they will never be alone, and that if they turn towards us to look for friends, we will be there ready to support them. they will always find us ready.
i forgot to mention that there is no catch-the-eye procedure on this item of the agenda, apart from the round of group speakers, and that blue cards cannot be used. i would also ask you to observe the speaking time strictly. we are considerably late.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the attack on the bardo museum in tunis has claimed the lives of at least 22 civilians. the islamic state has now confessed to this heinous crime. you, the eu's high representative for foreign affairs, mrs mogherini, promised support to the tunisian government shortly after the attack, referring not only to security measures but also to the economic and democratic development of the country, and you have repeated this here today in great detail. it is important that we in europe show solidarity with tunisia in this difficult time. we must also put our words into action and be prepared to provide adequate resources to support tunisia more than before. the support must ensure that this attack does not become a setback for the country's transformation process, but that tunisia can continue to develop into a successful democratic model in the region. thousands of tunisians have taken to the streets in the past week. the protests also saw a re-use of a central slogan of the jasmine revolution of 2011 in a modified form. the call "we are not afraid!" has now become "we are not afraid of terrorism!" in the face of the global threat posed by jihadists, this should be a key message not only for tunisia, but for the entire region and also for europe. 'we are not afraid of terrorism!' should also be understood as a warning against hasty action and overreaction. i see it as our duty to help the tunisian people to ensure that measures to protect against terrorism are in line with human rights principles. it would therefore be very important for the eu to promote in particular the strengthening of the rule of law institutions. i would like to conclude by referring to the world social forum currently taking place in tunis. the fact that it is taking place is also a concrete declaration of solidarity with tunisian society.
vice-president of the commission (vp/hr). mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall begin by replying to mr borghezio. the question of the control of the frontiers between tunisia and libya was exactly one of the points we discussed with the tunisian foreign minister the day before the attack on the bardo. and he said, in that meeting, that tunisia has no interest and no intention of sealing its borders with libya. i am used to respecting the decisions of the authorities of a country, especially when it is one of the countries which has made a successful democratic transition. the first basis, the first principle of our support for tunisia must therefore be respect for the autonomous decisions which the tunisian authorities are taking and will take, because it is clear that the challenge is common. it is also clear that this is not a clash between religions or civilizations, because the victims were all europeans, non-europeans, tunisians, muslims, christians and atheists, and it is also clear that the attack was both an attack on europe and an attack on tunisia. so there is no clash between the north and the south of the mediterranean: i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the fight against terrorism, but that it should be involved in the fight against terrorism. and it is a job we cannot delude ourselves that can be solved only with security measures. security measures, even immediate ones, must be taken. but we will overcome the challenge and this is what our tunisian friends tell us only if we can really invest in the young tunisian generation by offering a job, offering a place in society, offering dignity, which was what the young tunisians asked for when they started the revolution years ago: dignity! i believe that this is our task, to support with respect a path that is specific to tunisia, with all the means we have, but with respect and dignity. there have been a number of speeches which have raised a number of specific points, and i will mention two of them. one concerns the review of the european neighbourhood policy. this was one of the points we discussed with tunisia the day before the bombing. this is the subject on the agenda for a meeting in barcelona on 13 april with our neighbours on the southern shore of the mediterranean, as well as with our eastern partners later in may. the revision of the european neighbourhood policy can be an exceptional tool for us and our partners, if we do not treat it as a bureaucratic review, as an internal exercise; this is a time for us to think together, in that spirit of mutual respect, about what tools we can use together to tackle the challenges that are different today than they were a decade ago. and in the south, of course, there is the challenge of stability in the region, there is the challenge of terrorism, there is the challenge of the absence or fragility of state institutions, and there is the challenge of libya, which is not just a libyan challenge because, as some of you have said, the victims are all the same, and i share that. the victims are all the same: i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the victims are all the same and they are all important and i would like to say a word here today, also about the victims that are in other parts of the world, sometimes very close to tunisia: i think about nigeria, i think about what's happening in yemen. it is not the subject of this evening, but we must first of all be careful not to use double standards in our condemnation, in our reaction, and we must also be careful that regional crises do not become entrenched. i'll take that call. it's a job we're doing every day and hard, together with the united nations, together with the arab league, together with our regional partners. i think it is particularly important at this time that all actors, particularly in the region, act responsibly, not only in libya but also in yemen. we need a regional framework which, together with the multilateral and international framework, together with the united nations, together with the european union, is able not only to react but also to act by seeking sustainable solutions in the long term, because it is too often the case that a way of 'solving', among many commas, a crisis turns into a new crisis years later. so we have to be farsighted and understand the ways, starting with libya, but not just libya, that we can prevent future crises and also prevent terrorism in the region. the last point i want to make is about the allocation of funds. someone referred to an unfair division: two-thirds to the east and one-third to the south. it's an unwritten rule, but it's an unwritten rule backwards: two thirds of the funds are normally allocated to the south, one third to the east. it is a matter which can clearly be discussed at any time, but i wanted to make it clear that this is the case at present, not the other way around.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the joint debate on the following joint debate: the request for an oral answer to the commission on employment conditions including minimum wages in road haulage transport by marita ulvskog, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (2015/2571(rsp)) (o-000019/2015- b8-0106/2015) and the commission statement on the compatibility of the german minimum wage rules in the transport sector with eu law (2015/2620(rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not when a truck driver is travelling in another eu country, he must comply with the local road traffic rules. no one in europe is questioning that. the same must apply to minimum wages. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in the member states. this is clearly confirmed by the posting of workers directive, the rome i regulation and numerous judgments of the ecj. we social democrats want equal pay for equal work in the transport sector, but also in all other sectors, in the same place. then there's the charge that minimum wages would bankrupt businesses. no, it's not true! business is ruining business. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. it's this greed for profit that makes everything controlled. this is not bureaucratic, but it protects honest companies from fraudsters and workers from exploitation. i have been in close contact with truck drivers, with haulage companies all over europe for many years. what i'm experiencing is part modern slavery. drivers travelling across europe, sleeping in trucks, doing their daily chores in rest areas, away from home for months at a time. there were wages up to 300 euros a month. this cannot be the business model that is common in europe. this is why minimum wages must be applied everywhere and to everyone, without exceptions or loopholes. i hope that the commission will adopt this view and make a clear statement against social dumping, but also against ruinous undercutting, because that is also fair competition in europe and the freedom of fair enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what exactly do we need the european union for? if you ask european citizens today, many will say that the eu is a project of neoliberalism, unbridled competition and, above all, the interests of banks and big business. social rights had been relegated to the background of profit-making and profit maximisation. the debate on minimum wages in the transport sector that we are having today is a critical point to show that the eu is much more than that. the debate on minimum wages makes one thing very clear: we still have a long way to go to ensure social rights and fair working conditions for all eu citizens. the debate highlights the imbalance between a european integrated internal market where services can be offered across the eu and the lack of europe-wide minimum social standards that ensure fair working conditions for all citizens. this is why the european commission should take this debate as an opportunity to finally make sustainable proposals on how to guarantee common minimum social standards in the transport sector and beyond. we, as representatives of the citizens of europe, should fight together with trade unions and civil society to make a social and just europe a reality.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm usually very proud of our german thoroughness. but in this case the german government has gone far beyond the mark with its obsession with detail. the fact is that i am not at all against minimum wages as such. that's what the commissioner said. each country can decide for itself, that's national sovereignty perfectly fine. in this case, however, it is the first time - we are not the first country to have a minimum wage law, many others have already done so - that the transport sector, including the transit sector, has been described in such detail, until then - my colleague has said it - that faxes should be sent in advance in german to the german government, the german authorities when, exactly which company is on german soil and for how long, and that you should make sure that you pay the german minimum wage. i think that this is clearly beyond the scope of the objective and is also contrary to european law. the trial is not over, you said. but how can one be in favour of the single market when we have different living conditions in different countries, and of course different levels of pay? it's just the way it is! we certainly don't want the truck drivers to be treated badly. there's a lot at stake here. i'll give you that much. but i think that what mr ujhelyi said, which also applies to the petition and the demonstration, is that this is the wrong way to deal with it. we really need to do something different to create better conditions for truck drivers. it is true that in my view germany has opened a barrel with this. it is the first time that logistics and transport have been included in european policy. now france has followed. france is now doing the same. if other countries are added, what is a forwarder going to do who is going through five different countries? in poland, the wage is relatively low, at 1.95 euros or a little more, in luxembourg 11.10 euros, in france 9.61 euros, in germany 8.50 euros. how are we to break this up and who is to control it? i think that in this case it is clearly not about making people better off and is absolutely against europe and the single market. i think we cannot tolerate that at all. finally, i am also concerned that the small and mediumsized enterprises which we have always wanted to protect are now being forced to give up and are losing jobs. that is not what europe wants either! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i have deliberately drawn a blue card because mrs meissner said that france would now follow. my question is whether that is indeed the case, mrs meissner. because the french republic had exactly this law until 2010. she's taken that off the table and now she's considering reintroducing it. there is a fundamental difference between what is actually the case and what mrs meissner has presented. i would therefore ask her if she is aware of this.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. maybe we should check why france withdrew. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i repeat, that is the danger. if we start in germany and then follow france, how can a freight forwarder from eastern europe, who pays a lower wage because of the different living conditions and costs, compete with that? that would mean that only the german and french companies could survive, because they could pay for it and the others could not. this is not european! we want jobs everywhere and people to be able to earn a living. we'll have to start there.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. more than 20 countries in the european union have a minimum wage. and all are for equal pay for equal work in the same workplace. they don't want differentiation. that's why we have to respect that. i am glad that germany is the 23rd country to finally have a minimum wage. and that needs to be taken into account. and the abuse is increasing, the social dumping is increasing! what good will it do us if, for example, in lithuania or latvia, there are only truck drivers from belarus because they are subject to social dumping? it is not bringing europe together, it is dividing us. that is why we need equal pay for equal work in the same workplace.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. road freight transport is the main artery of the european economy. 75% of all transport in the eu is carried by road. the minimum wage in germany is 8.50 euros per hour. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. the documentation requirements mean higher bureaucratic burdens. but on the other hand, we need fairness in pay. we need to prevent social dumping. we also need the protection of those companies which treat their employees honestly. there's been a lot of criticism, including here. we don't want to have new walls in germany. we've had enough of this one. the german government has acted. it has suspended the minimum wage for trucks in transit through our country, stopped checks, suspended fines. but if trucks are to be loaded and unloaded in germany, then - as in cabotage - the minimum wage must be paid. commissioner, you have agreed to review the complex regulations. i agree! we all need legal certainty while preserving the principle of subsidiarity. i recommend that we proceed with great care and analyse the full range of impacts on individual sectors and member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the most important thing is that people feel they are being paid fairly. there are several ways of doing this. you have pointed out: we in germany too have now a minimum wage system which not everyone can accept. the essential thing is that people feel that they have done a job and are getting paid for it, and that the situation described by my colleagues does not prevail, where people feel that they are being exploited. we must prevent this, and we have strong social partners, including in germany, with a good social partner tradition. if we can achieve that, we will achieve commonality. make sure you have strong social partners in other eu member states too! we shall then reach the necessary consensus in many areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think this debate is actually complex. it also shows, in essence, that this is the result of differing standards within the european union. i think that's the heart of the debate. we have to be honest with each other and address it that way. lower wages cause lower costs for entrepreneurs. lower costs for entrepreneurs ultimately mean lower bid prices when it comes to getting a contract. this is of course a clear competitive advantage for those countries with lower standards. i am also surprised by those who say that the german minimum wage is higher and does not apply to others. but the same traders in these countries are ultimately fixing their quotations or prices in accordance with german, french or italian prices, and no one complains about that. if it's about wages, yes, but if the entrepreneurs are collecting the money, then no. so i'll give you an example from my hometown. i am a representative of the east bavarian area in germany. i'm at the border with the czech republic. what are german companies doing? and that is where the criticism of the german fdp comes from, because it is driven by the lobby. these companies are moving their operations 30 miles east. they form a letterbox company with employees who are ultimately czech citizens, possibly of other nationalities, at their lowest standards. but the work - and this is what it is about - is then ultimately done in another country, such as germany. now, there are differences of opinion. we must be honest and we must ask the commission to finally give us a european approach to the definition. what is cabotage? what is transit traffic in particular? and most importantly, i haven't heard that today. what is cross-border traffic? that is also crucial. what about trucks that go from prague to munich, unload and then immediately return? we must define these points more precisely. then we can come to a compromise. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear zigmantas, what you say is true. but it's part of being honest, so i say this: we must solve this at european level. the problem would be solved, for example, if we were to oblige companies which pass on contracts from their home country to pay this minimum wage. then the problem would be solved. we are not talking about work in lithuania or romania or hungary. we're talking about work that takes place on the territory of the state that has set a minimum wage. i understand, of course, that this erodes the competitive advantage. but in principle, we cannot object to the fact that this member state will also raise its minimum wage. i know it's a complex issue. but we have to keep up.
the commission has already done so. since 1 january 2015, a statutory minimum wage of eur 8.50 has been in force in germany. the fact that not everyone in germany was happy about the introduction of this minimum wage, especially parts of the medium-sized enterprises, has also been felt in brussels. the problem is not the 8.50 euro - that is not the problem - but the bureaucracy that goes with it. the 8.50 euro rate also applies to the transport industry and is to be extended to transit through germany. the dissatisfaction and uncertainty in other member states about the german system is there, as we have heard today. the frantic reaction of germany's minister of labour shows that something seems to be wrong with the law. although it initially ruled out any changes, it has suspended the minimum wage scheme for transit-only journeys until further notice, as brussels has begun its examination. our neighbours, particularly those from eastern europe, do not have to send their driver's plans to german customs. the commission has already taken steps to reduce the administrative burden. i think it is right that the commission should now take a closer look at this german bureaucracy. the commission has today indicated that the procedure is still ongoing and is being further examined. i can only recommend to mrs nahles that she use this review as an opportunity to revise the minimum wage act, in particular to reduce the many documentation obligations in relation to salaries. in conclusion, we must not allow this law to distort competition within europe and create new obstacles to the internal market.
in writing. with the adoption of the minimum wage in germany, the debate on the application of the new legislation to foreign truck drivers merely crossing germany began. however, such a scheme is not in accordance with the applicable eu law. the european commission was right to initiate a pilot procedure - the preliminary stage of an infringement procedure - against the german government. the minimum wage in transit was suspended. it is important that we find a european solution here and avoid over-regulation. we cannot ask european hauliers to pay different wages in each member state for a journey from lisbon to warsaw. however, in the case of journeys taking place only within the federal republic of germany or where the cargo is unloaded in germany, equal conditions of competition must apply to all operators. in these cases, regardless of the location of the consignment, the minimum wage for work within germany must be paid on a pro rata basis. only then can we ensure fair competition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. more than half a million roma and sinti are estimated to have been killed by the racist reign of terror of the german national socialists. in auschwitz alone, more than 23 000 roma and sinti were murdered in gas chambers. in the dismantling of the so-called gypsy camp at auschwitz-birkenau, on the night of 2 to 3 august 1944, 2 897 roma and sinti, mostly women, children and elderly people, were killed. for years, therefore, the 2nd of august has been a day of remembrance for the victims of the genocide of the roma and sinti. it is long overdue that this commemoration day should be more widely known. we fully support the call for 2 august to be recognised as the european day of remembrance for the genocide against the roma and sinti. and remembering this crime means that we must also today take decisive action against all forms of racism and actively combat the existing discrimination and exclusion of roma and sinti wherever it occurs. even in this house!
in writing. ‒ i voted against macro-financial assistance to ukraine for the following reasons: 1. there is no eu competence. macro-financial assistance is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, because the eu cannot provide better financial assistance than the individual member states could. the macrofinancial assistance is a bailout similar to that in the euro area. but there is not even an accompanying programme with structural adjustment requirements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. on the other hand, ukraine has already received macro-financial assistance since 2010, which should also have been linked to structural adjustment obligations. but no one seems to be interested in meeting these requirements. 3. ukraine is threatened with state bankruptcy. however, no debt-repayment analysis has been carried out, although this is still done even for the hopeless case of greece. no one seems to be interested in the question of whether the financial aid can be repaid. the financial assistance covers only about 16% of ukraine's acute payment needs. who's covering the other 84%? the commission did not provide any information on this. what if ukraine goes bankrupt after receiving our money because 84% is still missing? this is a taxpayer's money being gambled lightly.
in writing. ‒ i reject the so-called macrofinancial assistance of eur 1.8 billion. firstly, i see a parallel with the failed bailouts in the euro area. if you are against bailouts within the euro area, you must also be against bailout programmes outside the euro area. what fails in greece fails even more in ukraine. ukraine is already on the verge of bankruptcy. secondly, the legal basis for macro-financial assistance (article 212 tfeu) requires that the recipient country of assistance is not a developing country. ukraine is classified as a developing country by both the international monetary fund and the world bank. the macro-financial assistance is in breach of union law. it's going to be ignored. thirdly, it is not about economic aid to help build democratic structures in ukraine. in reality, it is a geopolitical proxy war. the eu should be a project of peace, representing our own interests and not waging proxy wars and if it does, it should at least admit it honestly to the european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the annual tax report contains many passages with which i fully agree. but it is not unusual for good and correct texts to be used to accommodate controversial content and to be included in the overall agreement on the overall text. that's the way it is here. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am against tax harmonization. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not over-competitive. moreover, the tax burden payable in a country is the price of the public services provided by that country (infrastructure, education, justice, public administration, health, internal security, national defence, etc.). each country is free to decide how much public services it wants to provide. if different levels of public services are offered, the tax burden must also be different. tax harmonization is incompatible with this and would interfere with the sovereign competences of the member states. that is why i cannot agree to a tax report which aims at tax harmonization through the back door.
in writing. ‒ i reject the report on the eu's annual tax report. the union has a very limited competence in the field of taxation. the union is nevertheless trying to extend its powers progressively, contrary to the treaties. the annual tax report an own-initiative report is one of the tools for this purpose. the report is like an omnibus, whose driver does not check the tickets: anyone can get on. this not only fails to reflect the actual legal situation in the field of tax law, but increasingly undermines it. the report is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. however, the following must be mentioned among the grounds for refusal: the report calls for the financial transaction tax revenue to be included in the eu budget as part of own resources. the european union would thus have acquired its own fiscal sovereignty and would have finally become what many colleagues in parliament and the commission are striving for anyway: the european union would become an independent state. i don't want to do that.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday 25 march 2015.
the mediterranean is again the subject of disturbing news today. more than 400 refugees are still missing after a boat capsized off the coast of libya on sunday. among the missing are many young men and probably a number of minors. it is feared that most of them have drowned. it would be one of the worst refugee disasters since october 2013. we are all safe in these difficult moments with the families of the victims. i would like to take this opportunity to express our gratitude to the rescue workers who are working there under extremely difficult circumstances for their tireless efforts. ladies and gentlemen, this tragedy has left us stunned and reminded us of the instability of the situation, particularly in syria, but also in libya and in other mediterranean countries from which the refugees come. we urgently need political solutions for these countries. ladies and gentlemen, in the past week alone, italian rescue workers have rescued more than 6,000 people from distress at sea. europe's mediterranean border is the deadliest border in the world. more than 3,000 people lost their lives last year trying to cross the mediterranean. we'll probably have a moment of silence for the victims. but, ladies and gentlemen, i cannot read these words here without reminding you of the following. i stood at this spot on october 7, 2013 and asked for a moment of silence for the victims of lampedusa. i asked you on september 15, 2014, to observe a moment of silence for 200 drowned migrants. i asked for a moment of silence on february 12, 2015 for 300 drowned migrants. i'm standing here today doing the same thing. i want to tell you that i don't feel worthy. the sympathy for the victims runs deep. but we cannot continue to observe a moment of silence for hundreds of dead, but the problem itself remains the same. (applause from the centre) i therefore appeal not only to us and to the other institutions of the european union. i would like to make a special appeal to the member states of the european union. the migration policy that is their responsibility must lead to a better protection of refugees. it must also lead to more effective action to tackle the causes of absconding. the reason for these movements is the fragmented state of europe's borders. we must do all in our power to help people in need. but it is also our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to do everything in our power to tackle the causes of displacement intensively. i would like to add to the sad news the terrible attack by the criminal organisation al-shabaab on the university in the city of garissa in northern kenya on 2 april, which claimed the lives of 148 innocent people, young men and women, students and students of the university there. it is not the first time that this terrorist group has shown its inhumanity by brutally attacking innocent people. what particularly shocks me is the systematic persecution of people of the christian faith. our thoughts are also with the people here in garissa, with the friends and relatives of the victims. we wish the injured, some of whom have been severely maimed, a speedy recovery. here again, we should do everything in our power to help. the fight against inhuman terrorism is not just a fight against a criminal organisation. it's a fight to defend our fundamental values. if we abandon this struggle, ladies and gentlemen, we abandon the civilized foundation of our society. i therefore ask you to rise in the name of all the victims of this. (parliament adopted the resolution) ladies and gentlemen, i have been asked to point out, after our minute of silence, that in syria, in the yarmouk refugee camp near damascus, 18 000 civilians, including 3500 children, have been caged and besieged for more than two years. the humanitarian situation in the camp is catastrophic. most of the people are cut off from the outside world, they lack everything, water, food, medical care. here again, we see women and children being held hostage by the so-called islamic state and other militias in the conflict and not for the first time being used as human shields. i therefore call on all the parties involved, and in particular the military, to spare civilians, especially women and children, to give them safe passage, to allow un agencies access to the camp and to ensure basic supplies of the missing items. the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east is the organization that is most closely involved in this matter, and we in the european union are also providing it with massive financial support. i think you all share my view that unrwa needs our full support and that we need to act. i do not want to have to make a minute's mourning for the thousands of dead in the refugee camp in yarmouk in one of the next sittings. (applause from the centre) i therefore ask all of you, and especially those of you who have a direct influence on the international organizations, to help us. thank you for your understanding.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 12 march 2015, pursuant to rule 152, has been distributed. i have a request from mr corbett for a statement on the rules of procedure. there you go.
i'm not going to let you do this. i would have appreciated it if you, as a particularly experienced colleague, had told me the rule to which you referred. if you had told me about the article, i could have commented on it. but since you did not mention it, i cannot comment on the article, but only in general. i would like to make two general points. firstly, i assume that you are aware that membership of political groups is not decided by political parties in the member states, but by the political groups here in the house. it is therefore up to the group to decide who it will accept as a member or not. secondly, this is not a matter to be debated or put to the vote in this house unless it is contrary to fundamental rules. i can't see any violations of the rules.
thank you for the enlightening remark. but it had nothing to do with the rules of procedure.
mr borelli, please. that was a proper reply to mr corbett's question. thank you very much. in agreement with the political groups, i propose to amend the final draft agenda: the commission's statement on the commemoration of the textile factory fires in bangladesh and progress on the sustainable development pact for bangladesh will be postponed until a later part-session. is there any objection to that?
thank you very much. (parliament approved the request) the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the opportunity to present a report on the implementation of the agreement on the eu-mexico pnr agreement. the plenary session would thus be extended until 10 p.m.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. our request is particularly timely, since the fines imposed on airlines if there is no agreement between the eu and mexico on passenger data will be usd 30 000 per flight from 1 july. we would like to have an opinion from the commission and debate this here to see what action is planned by 1 july.
thank you very much, mrs hohlmeier.
the president. i recommend to mrs int veld and mrs hohlmeier that we rename the title to commission statement on the proposed pnr agreement between mexico and the european union. we also fulfilled the wish of a woman in the field. (parliament adopted the proposal) ) the green group has asked for a debate on the council and commission statements on greece to be included on the agenda, under the title 'negotiations by the eurogroup on the conclusion of the current revised programme'. there should be no resolution on this.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we have arranged these micro-meetings, these small sessions of parliament in brussels, so that we can also react to current developments. you will have seen, as i have, in the last few days, the press all over europe, and you will have seen that the word "grexit" is on everyone's lips, and that there are more and more voices, coming anonymously from european governments or from european institutions, that are promoting the idea that the best thing for the european union and the best thing for greece is such a grexit. i think that's negligent. i think that this is primarily a neglect of the citizens of greece, who would face a much bigger, more difficult humanitarian emergency in the event of such a grexit than we have today after years of austerity. but i also believe that the european union as a whole, not just the eurozone economically, but the european union as a whole, is at great risk if such a grexit happens. and i think, mr president, that this sitting, in this debate situation as it exists in europe today, is the essential moment in which we can get information and constant negotiations from the commission and the council.
mrs. harms, you had my attention. but i think you've had fewer than other colleagues. would anyone like to speak in favor of mrs. harms' motion? i do not think mr lucke would like to speak in favour of mrs harms's motion. mr lucke, would you like to speak in favour of mrs harms' motion? mr. lucke, i'm not into socks! there you go.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i appreciate you letting me explain what i want to say and what i don't want to say. i think mrs harms's proposal is very correct. the european parliament must urgently address this. the official position of the eu, as expressed by commissioner dombrovskis at his hearing, was that there could be no grexit, that the euro was irrevocable and that it was unthinkable for a country to leave the euro. he had expressed himself differently at first, then he retracted that in writing. but that's the official position. and now that, in fact, a great many members of governments and scientists are advising, or at least suggesting the possibility of a grexit, we need to know what the commission's position is on this. will she assist a grexit if necessary? is there any preparation for this? or does the commission think that grexit is not possible anyway? and then you let greece leave the euro completely unchecked, when it happens one day by accident.
i'm not going to lie. i was surprised by this unusual connection. i didn't mean to explain what you were going to say. even if i had the intention, i don't think i'd be able to explain what you're trying to say.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not my group opposes the proposal to put a debate on the situation in the negotiations between greece and the eurozone on the agenda today, because, firstly, we believe that a basis for negotiations was established on 20 february. this basis still applies today. all the rest we have so far are rumours, newspaper reports, statements coming from the commission, from other supposedly well informed sources, which are constantly being denied. i don't know what basis we're going to discuss, where the facts are. i think we need a good debate on greece, for my sake, in the next part-session or later, but one which avoids us becoming the butt of rumors ourselves and perhaps making the situation worse. that is why we are rejecting this debate at this stage, although i fully agree with mrs harms that the way the problem is being dealt with is actually a disgrace to the european union.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation by mr jan olbrycht and ms isabelle thomas, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the draft council regulation amending regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 laying down the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020 (05479/2015 c8-0047/2015 2015/0010(app)) (a8-0125/2015).
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, looking back from 24 april, we will mark the 100th anniversary since the dark period of human history when many armenians fell victim of atrocities committed under the ottoman empire. we mourn for the lives lost and for the suffering endured by those men, women, and children. the council is well aware of the recent resolution of the european parliament of 12 march on the annual report on human rights and democracy in 2013 that, among other issues, called on all the member states to acknowledge these atrocities as genocide and encouraged them and the eu institutions to contribute further to its recognition. we also take note of the euronest resolution of 18 march this year, which touched on the same subject and contained the view that ‘preparing the ground for future reconciliation between peoples is of the utmost importance’. armenia regards these events as genocide. some eu member states have also formally recognised this in their national legislation. however, i shall note that there is no common agreement as to the definition of the tragic events that took place 100 years ago. there are different reasons for this. unfortunately, these tragic events still strongly affect the relations between armenia and turkey. without any doubt, it is important to have a common interpretation of the history. however, i should not be the one telling you that this may be a very difficult goal to achieve. but, looking forward, what is of immediate importance is to do all we can to promote the development of constructive relations between both sides. the council is committed to continue supporting the normalisation of armenian-turkish relations and encourages both sides to remain committed to the process of normalisation without preconditions. i would like to use this opportunity to invite both armenia and turkey to use every window of opportunity towards achieving this aim. the ratification by both sides of the protocol on the establishment of diplomatic relations between the republic of armenia and the republic of turkey and the protocol on development of relations between the republic of armenia and the republic of turkey signed in zurich in 2009 should contribute to the normalisation of relations between the two countries, including the establishment of diplomatic relations. normalisation of relations between armenia and turkey goes beyond mere bilateral interest. it has significant impact on both countries’ relations with their mutual neighbours, thus positively affecting security, stability and cooperation in the region. i would like to mention that the eu supports concrete activities targeting both countries, aiming at promoting confidence and people-to-people contacts. the commission may have more details on this, but i wish to recall that the eur 2 million project financed under the instrument for stability was launched in 2014. this project supports civil society efforts towards the normalisation of relations between armenia and turkey. the eu is committed to further engage with armenia and turkey. it is also high on latvia’s presidency agenda. we remain committed to provide necessary assistance to promote constructive relations between states.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, the commission fully acknowledges the significance of the upcoming events commemorating the armenian centennial, as well as the divergence of views on this particular tragedy. it has had far-reaching consequences for europe, with many of our current member states integrating the armenian diaspora and therefore also keeping the memory of these events alive. what happened a hundred years ago continues to be felt in this century and to negatively affect armenian-turkish relations. the upcoming centennial commemorations in april this year will most probably create additional sensitivity but will also be another test case for the future of bilateral relations between armenia and turkey and a chance for advancing reconciliation. reconciliation is a core foundation of the european project and values. the commission continues to support the normalisation of armenian-turkish relations and to encourage both sides to remain committed to the process of normalisation, without preconditions, through the implementation of the protocols they signed in 2009. it is essential that in this period of reconciliation partner countries are able to face their past through open and sincere debate. the commission is glad to note that a debate has been taking place in turkey over the past ten years. it is important that such an opening is acknowledged, encouraged and protected, including through well-calibrated messages from the european union. last year’s statement by the then prime minister, mr erdogan, was a welcome step and the commission encourages further meaningful steps paving the way towards full reconciliation. as mentioned by the council, the commission supports concrete activities aiming to promote confidence in people-to-people contacts. we have committed eur 2 million to a project supporting reconciliation and to greater civil society cross-communication. we also clearly expressed these messages of support during commissioner hahn’s recent meetings held in mid-march in yerevan with the armenian president, prime minister and minister for foreign affairs and also with armenian civil society. the euʼs support was highly appreciated, and there was a similarity of views on the positive impact that improved armenian-turkish relations could have on the whole region and on the multilateral track of the eastern partnership. in april we shall join the armenians in solemn commemoration and mourning for the lives lost, recalling the horror of what happened in the final days of the ottoman empire. regardless of the words we use to describe those awful events, there can be no denial of their historical reality. they represent a dreadful atrocity afflicting the people of armenia which must never be forgotten. parliament can count on the commission to work together to draw the right lessons from history so that we do not repeat past mistakes and in the future we build a europe that is a welcoming home for all european people.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the 20th century is marked by mass murder - mass murder for ethnic, ideological, religious reasons, by and on the run, and many other things. in particular, my own country has been involved in the mass murder of jews, sinti and roma and others, and we rightly call this genocide. we feel a moral responsibility for this, and i am grateful to this day that the israeli prime minister, ben-gurion, gave us the signal and met with the german chancellor, adenauer, in new york 14 years after these murders of millions. but the bolshevik regimes also killed many people. i'm not trying to put this into perspective. each act is cruel and irresponsible in itself. you can't put things in perspective by listing the acts. but the stalinist, bolshevik dictatorships have also committed their crimes. such genocide was also the act of armenians, the hundreds of thousands of people who were put to death under the ottoman empire in connection with world war i. i do not want to forget the pontic greeks and the aramaeans. i believe that we must make it clear to ourselves on the 100th anniversary of this day that this must never be accepted again and that it is part of the identity of people that the murders of their predecessors can also be called genocide. the statement by president erdogan, among other things, that he has apologized for such acts, should be the way for turkey to also acknowledge this genocide in its history, namely under the ottoman empire. i believe that this is why we should send a clear signal with the 1948 un convention that we should not only condemn in retrospect, but take our responsibility to ensure that it never happens again. in rwanda and other countries, the international community has failed in such cases. that is why this is a good time to make sure that we always take responsibility when genocide threatens. for whatever reason: there is never an alibi or justification for genocide, no matter what the political circumstances may be.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr brok, we are grateful for your clear words, and we agree with them. today we commemorate the victims of the armenian genocide perpetrated by the ottoman empire 100 years ago. but today we are also recalling the european idea of peace, the importance of protecting minorities, mutual respect and tolerance. i know there are some colleagues who do not like to hear it, but genocide must also be called genocide. that is true for all of us, including turkey. it would be an important step to take this recognition of reality, also in order to put relations between armenia and turkey on a new footing. this includes opening the archives. but the credit also goes to those who are dealing with this issue in turkey. the turkish president has been mentioned by you, and the turkish government has also taken the first steps in this direction. turkish ngos are working very hard on this issue. we encourage them to continue these steps in the right direction. i am aware that the german empire was an ally of the ottoman empire, and as a german in particular, i know that the elaboration of one's own history is very difficult, but also a basis for respectful, trustworthy international approach to international cooperation. without the elaboration of history and the help we have received from others, mr brok and i would probably not be able to speak in this parliament. but those who misuse this invitation from the european parliament for political purposes have misunderstood us. the resolution is a step towards turkey and should not be used as an indictment. we want to make it clear that we want good relations with armenia and turkey.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the journey from nuremberg to the hague was long and arduous. but legal judgments on genocide are never the final straw, they are always only the beginning of a comprehensive review. the centenary of the armenian genocide is for me and my group a part of the european understanding of contemporary history. we must work together to explain why multicultural life on the bosphorus was so bloodyly stifled at the beginning of the first world war - and this was also done with the participation of german military advisers. i also expect the turkish government to take the same view of this revision. we need a political re-start, as we did five years ago in the days of football diplomacy. i call on the turkish government to restore the dignity of the victims and to restore their dignity.
in view of the content of the statement under the 'blue card', i can only agree with you in this case, mr kyuchyuk.
colleagues, if you have one minute it is simply not acceptable and not respectful to other colleagues to speak for one minutes and 45 seconds or so. please stick to your allotted speaking time or else ask your political groups to give you more time.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is good and important that the european parliament should commemorate the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. but it is not just the history of the ottoman empire and modern turkey. as a german member of parliament, i would like to remind you that the german empire was informed of these crimes from the very beginning. germany, then an important ally, approved the genocide because it did not want to jeopardize relations with the ottoman empire. europe is a patchwork of memories. while in some countries denial of the genocide is even punishable by law, many member states, including germany, have not yet explicitly recognized the genocide. i hope that our resolution will help to create a common european culture of remembrance of the armenian genocide. i hope that in future all european parliaments will follow our example.
thank you very much, mr president, and thank you for coming on time. that's great!
the debate was closed by the tabling of seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the vote will take place immediately afterwards. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i have to say, madam president, do you remember? 2003 was the european year of people with disabilities. it is precisely in this respect that the european institutions should continue to set an example, if we are to call such a year. the shocking thing is that our member states are already much further along than the eu institutions. in 21 of the 28 european member states, a quota system for people with disabilities already exists. it is a very effective means of guaranteeing these people also the fundamental rights of equality, social participation and a life of self-determination. people with disabilities - there is a consensus amongst many who have experience - are an asset to the labour market. in germany, a statutory minimum rate of 5% applies to private companies, but also to the public sector. it's not much, it could be more. but still, it helps so much that we have a 6.6 percent employment rate of people with disabilities in public administration, across all hierarchies, not just in low-skilled jobs. it is time for the european institutions to set an example. we're always trying to tell people how to do things better.
member of the commission.– mr president, first of all allow me to express my thanks for having given me the opportunity to make a statement on the issue of mexico and passenger name record (pnr) data. i wish firstly to state that the commission has always been committed to finding a legally sound european solution to the issue of transmitting pnr data for flights between the european union and mexico. mexico has had legislation in force since november 2012 requiring all air carriers operating flights to and from mexico to transmit pnr data. the competent authority in mexico was therefore under the obligation from that date onwards to impose fines on those air carriers that do not transmit pnr data. mexico tells us that eu carriers are the only ones not providing pnr data to the mexican authorities. however, the mexican legislation has not yet been enforced with regard to eu traffic, because the commission has asked the competent authority in mexico to postpone the imposition of fines on several occasions. but the competent authority in mexico made it clear earlier this year that the final deadline for transferring pnr data was 1 april 2015. at this point it is important to mention parliament’s decision in november last year to seek the opinion of the court of justice on whether the draft pnr agreement with canada is compatible with the eu treaties. this opinion is not expected before the end of the year. the commission therefore sought a further postponement of the 1 april 2015 deadline until such time as the court of justice issues its opinion. the competent authority in mexico finally agreed to postpone the deadline until july 2015, provided that the european union commits to start formal negotiations with a view to an agreement. i therefore, as soon as possible, intend to suggest to the college of commissioners that the commission request a mandate from the council to formally open negotiations for a pnr agreement between the european union and mexico. it is clear that we will need to take into account the criteria and standards set out in the court of justice ruling on data retention of april 2014. this approach has been welcomed by mexico and has enabled the commission to secure the postponement of the sanctions from 1 april to 1 july of this year. the commission should have a council mandate to start negotiating before 1 july 2015. i have made it clear that negotiations on a pnr agreement with mexico cannot be finalised before the court of justice has issued its opinion on the draft pnr agreement with canada. the mexican authorities are aware that this is the case. i have kept – and will continue to keep – parliament informed. i wrote to the chair of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), mr moraes, before 1 april, to inform him of the steps i intended to take to resolve the situation of conflict between the laws of mexico and the european union. i am thankful that today you have given the commission the chance to update you on that matter, and i will inform you once the college has taken the decision to recommend adoption of the mandate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank you very much, commissioner, for the opinion which makes it clear that the commission will urgently ask the council to release the negotiating mandate for the negotiations on an eu-mexico pnr agreement. i would like to ask the commissioner whether there has been any reaction from the council. it would be interesting to know, because this is not a proposal that has been around since yesterday, but one that has been known to us for a little while. so the council should now also decide to give the commission a negotiating mandate so that we can then - in line with the opinion that the ecj will give - come to an end as quickly as possible in the area of a pnr agreement with mexico. i personally regret for the epp that we have a certain delay because we have this problem at the end of the day. i thought we could decide that politically. but it is essential to me that on 1 july we do not see our airlines in the situation of having to pay 30 000 dollars per flight, because this will make it virtually impossible for european airlines flying to mexico to be competitive. i therefore urge the commission once again to ask the council to give the negotiating mandate as soon as possible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we have just heard that the legislation in mexico on the retention of pnr data is not new. i do not recall, however, that we have insisted on such an agreement since 2002, and i would say that for good reasons. european data protection law is clear: without a legal basis, the transfer of european data to third countries is illegal. i welcome the fact that mexico is not currently imposing fines on european airlines which respect this right. on the other hand, such demands raise the question of what is at stake: better law enforcement or purely economic interests? but now that the commission has been given a mandate by the council to negotiate with mexico, it is obviously - this has been mentioned - that the european court of justice is currently conducting a fundamental rights check on the draft pnr agreement between the eu and canada. this was necessary because the european court of justice, in its judgment on data retention, established a new and particularly strict fundamental rights check for mass data retention. the house has doubts as to whether the agreement can take account of these new requirements and has therefore referred the draft text to luxembourg. the commission has also proposed that the court of justice should give its opinion on the eu-canada agreement. the negotiations with canada have dragged on for over five years. and mr avramopoulos has already raised it i am also sure that the ecj will have its opinion ready much more quickly. we also need clear principles for pnr agreements with third countries. after negotiating an agreement with australia, some had thought that this could serve as a model for others. but the agreement with the united states contained less favourable terms and received less support in the european parliament. a number of other countries, such as russia, the united arab emirates and south korea, are already knocking on the door, and it is precisely when third countries with weak data protection regimes want data that uniform and high minimum standards are indispensable. in conclusion, the treaty of lisbon gives the european parliament the final say in international agreements. we have therefore a responsibility as members of parliament to agree to future pnr agreements only if they are in line with fundamental european rights and do not undermine them by the back door.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the u.s. and canada want our passenger data. this includes personal data, but also phone numbers, credit card numbers, ip addresses - a lot of very personal data. but when one person puts their hand in the cookie jar, the other person wants it, too. so now mexico wants our data. if lufthansa lands in mexico city and doesn't give my data there because it's not allowed to, then lufthansa is now facing huge fines. so european airlines are being held hostage so that the eu will allow the passenger data to be shared. i reject this data transfer. we should protect the data of citizens and make privacy a priority. customer data is not a matter for the eu or the member states, let alone other governments. let's stop collecting passenger data in the first place. then we can't pass it on, not even to the us and canada.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not to date, there is no eu compliance, no evaluation of the extent to which pnr can be included. to date, we have absolutely nothing to prove that this is a necessary tool. fundamental rights - i thought we agreed on that - you can't negotiate and you can't negotiate to avoid fines. mexico -- if i may say so -- is one of the most dangerous countries in the world, with one of the highest rates of political assassinations, kidnappings, almost open collaboration of state authorities with the mafia. what mexico really needs is a consistent prosecution and punishment of these crimes, not the pnr data of lieschen müller from berlin. the threat of fines is blackmail. to give in to this is to hand over the fundamental rights of european citizens to the mafia. why don't we just give the pnr data to south sudan, to the congo? in addition, the airlines cannot be sued legally at the moment, because there is no law against it. the flight bans announced would be a shot in the knee for the country. i think it is a scandal what we are doing here and i think there should be an evaluation of the purpose of this instrument.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– thank you very much, commissioner, for the outline. mr president, i think it is very clear, and the commissioner underlined this, that there is no way that in this parliament we will get an agreement before we have the opinion of the european court of justice on the canada agreement, because this is a matter of principle that we have to discuss not only in the context of this agreement, but also of several other agreements which are in place or remain to be negotiated, and with regard to our own laws on the retention and analysis of passenger name records (pnr). here we come to the principle: in our constitutional framework, in our treaty and in the charter of fundamental rights it is written that there is a fundamental right to data protection and a constitutional principle which states that every intrusion into this fundamental right needs to be justified. in a democratic society, it has to be necessary. that means that we have to discuss how far the collection and analysis of passenger name records, like any other personal data, is justified. we need to discuss whether it is really justified to collect and analyse automatically all data for all passengers, or if instead we should focus on threat, risk and suspicion and demand that those principles be respected by our partners who demand from us that our citizens send data. this is because everything we agree on, and every agreement with third countries, always needs to be based on our treaty, on our charter of fundamental rights and our constitutional principles. we cannot negotiate them as if they were just something to balance things out. they are there, we have to respect them and we also have to demand that our partners respect them.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the relevant questions on this whole subject have already been raised by mrs hohlmeier and mrs veld. i would like to ask the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented in the medium term. in two and a half months, that time will be over. this does not seem to me to be sufficient. we have now, over the years, gained all this experience of how to deal with pnrs and with these contracts. i think that the political will should be there. the relevant question, in my view, is: how can we prevent our european airlines from being ultimately burdened with additional fines for having failed to respond to requests from mexico? this has implications for competition law and the economy. mexico is a sovereign state and simply wants to know who is coming into its country - a legitimate desire in my opinion. it's also an attempt to filter out criminals. of course, we need to balance this with the privacy issues. but we've had experience.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide because i was bombarded by a flood of elegantly pre-formulated emails from young turks saying that there was never a genocide of armenians. love outraged young turks outside at the machines, of course it was genocide; i'm german and i know something about this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the 100th anniversary of the armenian genocide. the debate on this resolution was essentially centred on two points: firstly, is the systematic action of the young turks against the armenian minority a genocide? secondly, if it is a genocide, can it really be called such? to answer the second question, i call an egg an egg. i will therefore not for diplomatic reasons refrain from calling a genocide a genocide. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would like to see a fair review of the situation, which would also include a broad public education of the turkish people about the crimes committed by their state.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on international roma day anti-gypsyism in europe and eu recognition of the memorial day for the genocide of the roma during the second world war, together with my group. the roma have also been victims of genocide in the past. as the largest ethnic minority in europe, they still suffer from legal discrimination. this discrimination is contrary to the purpose of the rule of law, which is to combat such discrimination and to establish the same rules for all people regardless of their origin or ethnicity. the broad support for this resolution from all the political groups in the european parliament is tantamount to a criticism of the rule of law within the eu. the eu and its institutions often interfere in the internal affairs of non-eu countries in a very clever way, even though they are not in a position to regulate their own affairs within the union by the rule of law. i shall be happy to point out this contradiction in future and to put my finger on the wound of the eu's rule of law deficits.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday 15 april 2015.
ladies and gentlemen, two days ago, nepal was struck by a devastating earthquake. at this moment, the death toll stands at almost 4,000. well over 6,500 others were injured. we all have the pictures in front of us. the country is in chaos, in some villages all the houses have completely collapsed, roads are torn up, impassable, transportation routes are blocked, historical sites in the country are completely destroyed, hospitals are totally overloaded, there is no electricity and drinking water and food is becoming scarce. hundreds of thousands of children have been affected by the worst himalayan earthquake in nearly a century and are in dire need of humanitarian aid. we in parliament welcome the aid measures that have been taken and call on all member states and also on all international organizations to bring aid to the people affected as quickly as possible. we are thinking of the victims and expressing our solidarity with the hard-hit nepalese people. ladies and gentlemen, a week ago, another dramatic shipwreck occurred in the mediterranean. it is likely that between 800 and 1,000 people drowned in this process - people who were on their way to find refuge from war and persecution, hunger and poverty in europe. i know that many of you feel the same way as i do, when i ask you again today to observe a moment of silence for the victims, that we ask ourselves why it is that we feel that we think about victims over and over again and over and over again in every meeting, but that the politics do not change what is necessary to prevent such disasters. we shall have a full debate on this here in the house on wednesday. i know that i said this in the last plenary session and i am, like many of you, deeply shocked that what i said in the last plenary session - that i hope i will not have to take a minute's silence in the next plenary session - has nevertheless come to pass. i receive many letters from you that have exactly this in mind. i know it's difficult. but in view of the dramatic situation and the fact that a minute's silence is always a special occasion, we must not forget, out of anger at the shortcomings that exist, the respect for the innocent victims. i therefore ask you to rise up for the victims in nepal and for the poor people who have lost their lives in the mediterranean. (parliament adopted the resolution) i am not going to go into detail. i would like to take up a point which has been raised by a number of colleagues in the last few days and today, but which is also very personal to me. nine people are awaiting execution in indonesia as we speak. among them are a frenchman, two australians, an indonesian and five other people of other nationalities. indonesia had a moratorium on the death penalty until autumn 2013 and has not carried it out. this moratorium has been lifted and the government, especially the new president, is refusing any appeals for clemency. the european union has condemned the death penalty and opposes it on principle. we have been working for many years in this parliament and throughout the world to abolish this cruel and unjustifiable form of punishment. i therefore call - and i hope i speak on behalf of all of you - on the indonesian government and in particular on the president to refrain from carrying out the death penalty, to return to the moratorium and in any case to use his right of clemency, preferably to abolish the death penalty.
thank you very much, mr corbett. i have not yet found a rule in the rules of procedure which gives me the power to take action against hypocrisy. we shall, however, examine whether the president has any possibility of intervening. i have received no other communication from the group concerning mrs , either as regards the alleged suspension or as regards her possible exclusion. i have just consulted the services again, and they have not yet come up with any conclusions either.
thank you, mr agnew. we are taking note of that and will inform mr corbett. the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 23 april 2015, pursuant to rule 152, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no changes. tuesday: the green group requests that a commission statement on the recent revelations of mass surveillance of eu citizens, politicians and companies by the nsa and the role of the german federal intelligence service be placed on the agenda for tuesday afternoon as the third item after mrs macovei's report, all without a resolution. if this point is accepted, i must inform you, for the sake of form, that the oral question on the so-called intelligent limits will be postponed until the may i meeting.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. at the height of the nsa affair, angela merkel declared: "spying on friends is not right!" what we have been discussing in germany since last thursday, friday, is exactly this: the spying on friends for the nsa by the federal intelligence service, the bnd, which may have allowed itself to be made into an instrument of the nsa, like other intelligence services in europe. we have questions about what the bnd has been doing with so-called selectors in germany, illegally spying for the nsa at a news hub in bad aibling, against european businesses, possibly european politicians and european citizens. and we would be very much in favour of not waiting and letting time pass, but of following this possible new dimension of the nsa affair from the outset here in the european parliament. that is why we are asking for this item to be added to the agenda.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i support this motion in the long term. because on behalf of the nsa - you have to think about that - a european national intelligence agency, the bnd, has been targeting data on european businesses. this is de facto economic espionage, which is also prohibited by eu law. you have to say it so clearly. politicians have been spied on, european citizens have been spied on on behalf of the nsa, and probably for decades. this is not only treason - that's one of them - but also a definite breach of eu law, directives, treaties that we all agreed on here and that are important. that is why it is essential to deal with this issue. i hope the other groups will see it the same way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. french journalist edouard perrin is the third person to be charged in luxembourg for his part in the lux leaks revelations. we owe it to him and whistleblowers like antoine detour to set up the special committee on tax pre-decisions. we respect the independence of the judiciary, but we also respect the freedom of the press. the prosecution demonstrates the lack of legal protection for journalists and whistleblowers in the eu. the directive on the protection of business secrets is designed to further weaken this protection. it is a violation of the rule of law to put the decent people on trial and not the tax evaders. the commission is headed by mr juncker, who was responsible for the laws in luxembourg for many years. the eu commission is due to make a statement in parliament on tuesday afternoon and put forward proposals for legal certainty. this is also a measure of the credibility of this house in the fight against tax havens.
i have no further amendments for tuesday. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war.
the epp group has asked for the debate on the murder of students in kenya to be given a different title for wednesday: 'persecution of christians around the world in connection with the murder of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaab'.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we want the title, as you have said, mr president, to include the term 'christians', the persecution of christians. and this is for two reasons: the first is the specific case of kenya. true, violence does not affect only christians. others are affected by it. but all this violence exists only because there is hatred against christians. they'll stop the buses, ask who's christian, and then execute them. that's why the cause of the violence is the christians. the hatred of the christian minority. we are concerned with a broader question. because we had not originally asked to talk about kenya, but we had originally asked to talk about the persecution of christians worldwide. kenya was just one example. i just want to memorize the numbers. 300 million christians in this world live under the threat of christian persecution. 150,000 christians are dying every year. in the middle east, in north africa, we had 20 percent christian minorities in the early 1990s. today, they are 4 percent christian minorities. this shows the pressure christians are under worldwide. it is by far the most persecuted religious minority in this world. that is why we want this matter to be discussed and decided upon in the european parliament. the draft resolution which we have already tabled deals with precisely these questions of the persecution of christians throughout the world. i cannot understand my group's view that we may talk about the persecution of christians in the text but that it should not appear in the title. that is why we are asking for the old title to be reinstated. persecution of christians is such an important issue! (applause) mr president, i would also ask, because it is an important concern for our group, that we finally - we have tried to do this several times as a group - discuss this subject in all its breadth and depth here, that we also vote on it by name.
the next item is the debate on the recommendation for the second reading of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection concerning the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning type-approval requirements for the introduction of the 112-based ecall in-vehicle system and amending directive 2007/46/ec (05130/3/2015 c8-0063/2015 2013/0165 (((cod)) (rapporteur: olga sehnalová (a8-0053/2015)).
member of the commission.– mr president, first of all i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms sehnalová, and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) for their tireless work on this file. regrettably, the commissioner who takes this file, commissioner bieńkowska, cannot be here today but i am taking this debate on her behalf. i am convinced that without the enduring commitment from these committees we would not be so close to its successful conclusion. i would also like to thank the committee on transport and tourism (tran), the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe), and the rapporteurs for the valuable contributions that they have made. road safety is a topic that concerns all of us and we have come a long way in making our cars and streets safer, but despite these improvements road accidents still happen all too often and, especially when a severe accident happens, we want to be sure that help is on the way quickly. however, until now, precious time is often lost due to delayed or inaccurate information about the accident. this time can make a huge difference between life and death. the european emergency call system, ecall, was developed to solve this problem. ecall is an electronic system that automatically provides emergency services with the information they need immediately after an accident has happened, and by doing so it can drastically shorten the time between an accident and the arrival of help. this is the idea behind ecall and in parliament this idea found strong resonance. one year ago, in april 2014, parliament voted in favour of a decision that would put the infrastructure for ecall in place. tomorrow you will have the opportunity to put the capstone on the ecall project by approving a regulation that will bring it into all cars and vans. i am convinced that we have arrived at a well-balanced and complete text. parliament has played a vital role in shaping it and i endorse it without hesitation. as it stands, the text does not ignore the fact that private systems are already on the market and have proven their benefits. however, the ecall legislation will ensure that the system makes its way into all cars and vans in the future. as a result, many more people will benefit from it. at the same time, data protection and privacy concerns have been taken very seriously. for this reason the public ecall system limits itself to the data that is absolutely necessary for its purpose. information only leaves the car in the event of a severe accident and is not stored any longer than necessary. therefore, drivers can be assured that their personal data is protected and that ecall cannot be used to track their movements. i believe the compromise text can serve as an example of successful regulatory work on privacy and data protection. in this context, i would like once again to highlight the important contribution of the libe committee. i know that many members wanted to see ecall implemented earlier than 2018 and i can understand this impatience, but i am also convinced that we have a realistic timeline for manufacturers as well as the consumer. it will now be up to you, members, to take the final step and turn this into law.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to thank mrs olga sehnalová for the very good, very hard work she has put in and for the result that we have achieved, which is really very good to live with. we social democrats will of course be voting in favour of this compromise text tomorrow. it was particularly important for us social democrats to ensure that help arrives very quickly in the event of an accident. that's why an ecall system is an important thing. a problem has arisen with this system from the very beginning: what about data protection? this was one of the central questions of the discussion, of the controversy, that we had in this area. i think the solution of the so-called sleeping system is exactly the right answer to that. this ecall system does not allow tracking of the routes covered. it also does not provide for what many private systems already provide for today, namely that data on the health status of the driver is also stored. no, that's not what we want. we want a system where the rescuers can get to the scene of the accident very quickly, and only the most necessary information is needed, namely: where did this happen, at what latitude did it happen, and how can i as a rescuer get to that place as quickly as possible? i think we did a good thing with it. privacy is guaranteed, but help can also come quickly. that's exactly what we need.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, first of all let me thank the rapporteur for her hard work on this regulation. i appreciate that there have been significant improvements on the handling of the information being transferred in these systems. but let us be honest, the ecall regulation will not prevent accidents from happening. road safety and preventing accidents is about solving the causes, for example high speed and alcohol influence on the roads. that must be done in order to significantly decrease accident rates. of course ecall is intended to send the emergency signal more quickly. however, i think that there is also a question regarding the capacity to really send that emergency signal, and that question has not been answered. nonetheless, for the driver or the holder of a car, having the opportunity to have the ecall system in place is a good one, but why not allow the opportunity for the person who is buying a car to consent to this system; to say on his or her own: ‘yes, i want this’ or ‘no, i do not want this’. what is in this box is a mobile connection, and although the data is not sent it is locked in. therefore, if the legislator decides to get this information it is possible to get information on where a car is. this is a deep intrusion, and we should be very careful that this does not open up pandora’s box to the extent of tracking every car owner everywhere he goes.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank mrs sehnalová and our shadow rapporteur, mr carlos coelho, for their hard work on a complex legislative project which has now been completed and which is putting pressure on the member states to finally establish uniform access to the emergency number 112 in all 28 member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's citizens is not compromised. i am glad of that, and the epp group is very happy about that. there is only one motion for a resolution on the second reading tomorrow. if i remember correctly, it's from the liberals. but the liberals were actually arguing that it should be rejected. in this respect, it should have been better for the greens to have done it, because of course we can talk about certain issues of data protection, but i do not think we can talk about one: that the emergency call is only sent when the airbag is activated, and then - at least as far as i know - it is always a tragic and a big problem in the car. i believe that - and i would agree with the socialist spokesman - we have found a good compromise, which improves data protection and data security on the one hand and improves the emergency infrastructure in the european union as a whole. i think this is the way. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european emergency number, the establishment of a european emergency number, and the establishment of a european emergency number. i hope we can do that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr rübig. we are already in the second reading. it is indeed true that not only will there be a single emergency call system for 112, but that private systems will also be allowed to continue. but that should not stop anyone from using this new system, which is open to all. and the standards bodies are working to create the standards that are necessary for this, so that everyone can benefit from it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank olga sehnalová for her work. i know her well, i like her as a colleague. i have to say, there is one thing that is driving me, and that is that i can take it directly from my previous speaker. i said when ecall was introduced that it was a good thing to have an improvement to save people when they were really in an accident. but i've been asking you from the beginning, where's the button to display? i think it's very good that we have innovation in road transport, that we also... this is very important to us, and there are a lot of possibilities, but it's all about data. even now, when you drive a convertible, for example, the convertible records itself without the instruction manual saying whether you open the roof properly. there are so many things you can decide whether you really want them or not. it was said that misuse of data was out of the question. yes, that's right, but i'm getting data from people i don't want. for example, what if i don't want to be saved? that's not unusual. i think that if we have an on/off button now we can decide that this is really something for the privacy, for the data protection of europeans, and that is why i suggest that all those who want to do so please support the alde amendment tomorrow. it's going right this way.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european alcohol strategy is a wonderful example of why we in europe could use more subsidiarity and a little less interference from the european union. we have completely different situations within europe, particularly with regard to alcohol. for example, scandinavian and some eastern european countries drink a lot of high-protein alcohol. in france, spain and italy, people prefer to turn to wine. and in countries like germany and the czech republic, people tend to drink beer. there are a variety of problems. we have the problem of binge drinking in britain, which is less of a problem in many other countries, and we also have a culture of drinking wine or beer, a culture of alcohol in europe, which looks very different. i think we would be well advised not to impose the same strategy on all europeans, but to impose a strategy which takes account of their habits.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the authors of this motion for a resolution. there are indeed dramatic problems in europe with alcohol abuse. alcohol can destroy lives. i am particularly pleased that paragraph 30 has dealt with the need to protect unborn life and that this includes a strategy against alcohol abuse in pregnancy. we in europe can learn from each other to combat alcohol abuse in the best possible way. but i also agree with those who say that much of what we can and must do is primarily a matter for the member states and that europe cannot regulate everything. it is very important to note what alberto cirio said: alcohol should not be compared with tobacco. the first cigarette is as bad as the tenth. but in healthy people in a normal environment, moderate drinking, such as the first glass of wine, is not harmful. there are even studies that say moderate drinking -- and this is important to emphasize -- can actually extend life. that is why we should not demonize alcohol, just as we should not deprive people in the european union in general of everything that people consider to be part of a full life. in this sense, the motion for a resolution is broadly balanced, since it deals with subsidiarity and also with this aspect of moderate alcohol consumption. the epp believes that some things need to be improved. we are against minimum prices and, even if this is only spoken of in a cautious way, we do not need to have this in the resolution. i am particularly of the opinion that we do not need a uniform minimum age throughout europe. there are different experiences in the member states and different models for how to start with certain drinks such as wine and beer and then allow other alcoholic drinks later. so if those two points come out, the resolution will be even better.
i have to say, madam president, i'm glad we're here today to talk about the important issue of alcohol abuse, and that's what this is about. nowhere is alcohol consumed as much as in the european union. we hold a sad world record. alcohol is the third most common preventable cause of death and disease. in germany alone, 42,000 people die each year as a result of excessive alcohol consumption. so we need a new edition of the strategy that has now expired. i would also like to say something about the nutritional information on alcohol packaging. so it's very important that we also tell people who consume alcohol how many calories they're taking in. so, about a quart of beer equals a bar of chocolate. many people do not know this, and so obesity is also a very common consequence of excessive alcohol consumption. we are concerned above all with the protection of young people and pregnant women. this is very important to us, and we hope that we can find a common solution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's certainly good that we're dealing with this because alcohol can de facto destroy the lives of many people - that's perfectly right - because it can also lead to death and because it's a danger to us if we drink too much of it - perfectly right. but first, we must ask ourselves whether we really need a european strategy which, through labelling, tries to tell people not to buy something. alcohol can even be healthy in moderation. paracelsus said the dose makes the poison. a small glass of red wine may have more alcohol than a glass of cola, but doctors say that if you drink just a little of it, it is much better for your health than cola. a glass of champagne can be good for someone with low blood pressure. i think it's important to say positive for the adult, not for children and not for pregnant women. that is why, before labelling the wine 'obligatory against pregnant women', for example, before doing something to it that has often been done voluntarily, one should really clarify. all pregnant women should be aware of what drinking alcohol can do to their unborn child. we need to educate, not necessarily ban or label.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i shall now turn to the young people, mr president. the minimum drinking age should be raised to 18. they're laughing at us! that's not the reality of life! in most member states, young people are allowed to drink beer and wine from the age of 16 and then spirits from the age of 18. my own daughter would laugh at me if i made a decision like that! you can get married at 16 in germany, and you can drink the champagne with it at 18? well, i don't think that's going to work. the member states have good laws on the protection of young people, which regulate this in detail. you may just have to do a better job of enforcing those laws. that's not our jurisdiction. then minimum prices. minimum prices are tax increases. this too is to be seen cautiously. this usually encourages black market and smuggling. it doesn't reduce alcohol consumption. experience shows that. the member states should therefore think of something else, and they have exchanged ideas on the alcohol strategy, and that was positive, that was successful, which is why we must also ask whether we really need a new edition of this strategy against alcohol abuse. i mean, i know. warnings on bottles for pregnant women may also include: yes, fetal alcohol syndrome is terrible, and we need to address it, but i think if a pregnant woman drinks alcohol from a bottle, and there's a warning label on it, it's too late anyway. we need to get a clearer picture before we do. that's what we have to do to prevent this terrible syndrome.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. in fact, progress has been made. but there are also things that are not quite right, for example the compensation fund, which has not yet been paid by all the companies concerned - the 30 million has not yet been reached. progress has been made in labour law the 2013 reform. but this labour law does not yet apply to the special economic zones. there's a lot of things that are in the mix. secondly, the ilo has found that the content of the fundamental ilo conventions 87 and 98, the freedom of association, has not been guaranteed. once again, you have to put your finger very strongly in the wound. the lesson i have learned from this incident is that we as europeans need to strengthen the formation of trade unions and the exercise of collective rights in all trade relations so that people can organise themselves and fight for their safety.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, rana plaza should have been a wake-up call for everybody on this earth and indeed some things have changed. they have been outlined by some here: new laws in bangladesh, a compensation fund that is not yet filled – so things we still need to work on, and the labour law in bangladesh still has its shortcomings. so there are a lot of things which should have been done. yes, we as the european union need to support bangladesh in going further. but we also have to see that we, here in the european union, are part of the problem. it is true that we are the consumers but we cannot leave policymaking to the consumers. here in this parliament we make laws about our internal market and we make laws on trade. i think we have to use those trade laws, those market laws, to make sure that those goods that are produced under horrendous working conditions – where people are dying because of the job that they are trying to do in order to feed themselves and their families – do not have a future here. so we need to have those binding rules that the right of the house has just rejected. maybe you can explain how, if not by binding rules, we are going to make sure that the goods that are being sold here are in line with the most decent, normal and basic human rights and the most basic working laws. i think that is something that we, as legislators, have to stand up for. we cannot excuse ourselves and leave it to the consumers. we cannot leave this to bangladesh. it is our common responsibility.
the commission has already done so. it is an important and necessary debate. i think we must finally come to a common position and come to binding rules. the minimum wage in bangladesh has now been raised to 62 euros per month for 60 hours of hard work per week. however, to cover the basic needs of life, you need at least 104 euros. so what will the commission do to ensure that european companies, as the main contracting authorities, finally make fair wages a condition of their contracts? just 20 cents more per t-shirt in the shopping would fund the pay raise. commissioner thyssen rightly said in the commission's press release that decent working and living conditions are a prerequisite for sustainable economic growth and prosperity along our entire production chain. why is this truth still of little importance in the union's actual trade policy? and is this not also a concrete reference point for eu refugee and migration policy? bangladeshis are also victims of trafficking. finally, i would also like to say: extend the sustainable development pact to the whole region and, above all, make its elements binding.
i have to say, madam president, it is the greed of a few, for which the poorest of the poor paid a heavy price in the rana plaza building collapse: 1 100 people died, 2 000 were injured. yes, much has been done, factories have been closed, workers' rights have been strengthened, at least in some respects, wages have been raised - but not enough - and safety standards have been improved. the pact was right and it's important. but the families were not helped. no financial compensation was promised. the commissioner has therefore to maintain the pressure on international producers and subcontractors to ensure that they are committed to a decent working environment. and the bangladeshi authorities must carry out continuous and strict checks in their own interest. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. don't tell anyone the other one's in charge. let 's all say: we are partly responsible for the negative situations we have experienced, but hopefully also for the positive developments. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the most important thing is that the authorities take responsibility, that the inspections we ask for can be carried out, that there is enough staff available. the country has to get out of the situation of saying that this is only happening in bangladesh. we know it's happening in other countries. we have seen this happen. i am part of the south asia delegation: we have only one chance if we can really make progress and not just say that our hands are tied, that we cannot move forward. that's what we need. we need to have outside pressure, and then we will achieve change, especially with the authorities in bangladesh.
i have to say, madam president, it is not uncommon for the cotton for a t-shirt to be harvested by child labour in uzbekistan, then processed in bangladesh or pakistan under inhumane conditions, and the t-shirt is sold here in europe with great profit. while the trade makes 40% on a t-shirt, it is the workers who make only 4%. poor pay, poor working conditions are the rule. we need transparency requirements, including labour and social standards. not just for economic activities. i expect the commission to support, indeed to call for, the improvement of labour and social standards in these countries. i ask the government of bangladesh to finally do something about the suppression of trade unions and to implement ilo conventions 87 and 98. i expect european companies not to hide behind subcontractor chains and to stop competing for the cheapest sites at the expense of people, and indeed at the expense of people's lives.
in writing. i support the call by my colleagues and the commissioner for all companies to finally pay into the compensation fund for the victims and their families. it is essential that european legislation compels companies to be able to trace their supply chains in order to comply with ilo labour standards for workers. initiatives in this direction are already being taken by textile alliances in the netherlands, denmark and also in germany. our aim in the european parliament and in the commission must be to consolidate and strengthen these initiatives at european level.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the basic regulation defines multiannual plans as a tool, an anchor for the sustainable management of fish stocks and the ecosystem. this is the first proposal for a multiannual plan after the new cfp reform has come into force and at the same time a blueprint for subsequent plans. the commission proposal for a multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea does not fully meet the objectives of the reform. we do not want the cfp to be watered down, but to be improved. unlike the cfp reform, article 3 objectives of the proposal does not mention the objective of replenishing and maintaining the fish stock above a biomass level that guarantees msy. the commission's reasoning does not explicitly take into account the interactions between these stocks of cod, herring and sprat and the other ecosystems. the point at issue is article 4 target values. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to combat this problem. the commission proposal does not contain any annual limit on fishing effort. the limit on the number of days that fishermen may not exceed, which is often complained about by fishermen, is thus finally off the table.
i have to say, madam president, i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank mr wałęsa for his excellent work. the common fisheries policy for the next 10 to 15 years will of course also require sound and reliable management plans. this is not a magic trick that is being used here, but a clear collaboration between the professions and science. and only on a scientific basis can we make a reasonable assessment of individual stocks. we have institutes for this, and we have fisheries and marine biologists who provide the basics for sprat, for herring, and also for cod. and then we have the msy fishery standard that we want to meet. that's the whole point. the fishermen have already had to accept enormous quota reductions in recent years and have now also managed to keep stocks at a level where they can be fished sensibly and sustainably, and this multi-species multiannual plan is very important so that there are no exaggerated demands here with 0.8 msy etc., but practical ones.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the landing obligation was introduced to prevent the discarding of unwanted fish. the unwanted fish may be too small or not of the right kind. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionising radiation. several provisions in existing regulations are no longer consistent. that's why we had to change it. these include minimum reference sizes, rules on catch composition, discarding arrangements, prohibition of fishing in certain areas, etc. we have introduced a calendar in the basic regulation to make the changeover easier for fishermen. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank everyone for this interesting debate. some members have again highlighted a number of challenges that will be faced in the implementation of the cfp reform. we all have a common interest, which is to strengthen fishing and make it a sustainable industry. so we have to take on the challenges and work together collectively to strengthen our important fishing sector. as was mentioned, the transition is from discarding to landing bycatch, but the ultimate aim is to reduce and to try and eliminate bycatch as much as possible. one way of doing this is by going for more selective gear, while the landing obligation also promotes this idea. we have also to keep in mind that, when protecting the industry, we are doing this in the best interest – and in the interest of the long-term sustainability – of fishermen themselves. some members mentioned the need for flexibility. flexibility does exist, with the de minimis provisions and quotas, which will be adjusted to take into account the discards as well. as many have mentioned, the omnibus is a temporary reform of technical measures. other multiannual plans will follow and the review of control regulations will follow as well. we are not leaving fishermen on their own. i would like to remind you that the emff provides support for our fishermen as well, for example by helping them to change their gears and in the handling of catches onshore and on vessels. mr cadec went back to the previous debate and mentioned the legal issue between parliament and the council. i do not know whether i should even come back on this, but allow me one comment. this was indeed one of the points of discussion in the council, but i am happy that the council approved the full general approach and did not exclude the point relating to the legal basis. here, the commission is fully committed to the conclusions of the interinstitutional taskforce. as i underlined at the beginning, all the actors involved take their respective responsibilities seriously, and cooperation is working well. so i am certain that any outstanding problem on the ground that has been mentioned can certainly be addressed. commission statement commission statement referring to article 1(11) point 2 (amendment of article 19(2) of regulation (ec) no 850/98), article 2(6) point 1a (amendment to article 15(1a) of regulation (ec) no 2187/2005) and article 3(4) point 1b (amendment to article 15(1b) of regulation (ec) no 1967/2006) the commission interprets the provision in article 1(11) point 2, article 2(6) point 1a and article 3(4) point 1b of this regulation relating to the measures to facilitate the storage and the finding of outlets for undersized catches once they are landed, as applying only where such measures are relevant and necessary.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 28 april. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the city of kyrenia is a symbol of the occupied northern part of the republic of cyprus. it is a legitimate desire of the displaced persons to be able to return to kyrenia and to their other hometowns. time is of the essence, because every day in the north of cyprus, facts are being created which will make reunification more difficult. nature and landscape are being destroyed by the occupiers. whole mountains are dug up to extract building materials. the beaches are being desecrated by huge hotels. the great mosques of turkish style are displacing the remnants of cypriot architecture. will it finally become a turkish province? i think that the cultural and religious heritage of cyprus must be allowed to be preserved. it must be allowed to restore churches and to celebrate services there. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. this is a humanitarian act that can help to reunite the two parts of the island in peace.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by ms krystyna łybacka on monitoring the implementation of the bologna process (2015/2039(ini)) (a8-0121/2015).
we're very short on time. i have well over ten word messages for the five minutes we're supposed to have. that's why you're allowing me to make decisions. i cannot take into account colleagues who were able to speak earlier today. i beg your understanding. catch the eye
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this report and to say that the commission welcomes the report ʽfollow-up on the implementation of the bologna processʼ and would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the result. this report gives a good overview of developments since the bologna declaration, which was signed in 1999. it recognises the complex and broader context that higher education and the bologna process operate in. the bologna process has transformed higher education systems in europe, and many member countries have made significant changes in order to bring a common higher education area into being. as the report acknowledges, countries have modified their higher education structures and established mechanisms for better mobility, recognition and quality assurance in education. they have addressed ways of improving the social inclusiveness of higher education and ways to equip graduates with employable skills, to deepen how higher education contributes to society. these reforms support core issues at the heart of eu policymaking too, by promoting social inclusion, enhancing learning mobility and employability of european citizens, as well as promoting the international competitiveness of higher education in europe. but many of the commitments are still only partly implemented. the commission continues to argue for wider and deeper implementation, and for this it is crucial to fully involve the academic community and relevant stakeholders, as parliament’s report also underlines. on the road towards a fully-functioning european higher education area, we face particular challenges and opportunities that we expect will be addressed at the ministerial conference in yerevan on 14 and 15 may this year. the issue of youth unemployment and how higher education systems can ensure graduates have employable skills is at the top of the agenda and, in the light of the recent attacks on fundamental freedoms and knowledge inside and outside of europe, we expect that ministers will also address the contribution of higher education to maintaining democratic and inclusive societies in europe. ensuring that higher education is properly inclusive of all sectors of society is indeed a constant challenge. recognition in the wider sense is important for reaching talent where talent lies, for promoting more flexible learning paths, and for ensuring lifelong learning. other challenges that the communiqué is likely to address go to the heart of the teaching and learning process and it is essential that we continue to put students at the centre of this process, in using the ects credit system or in quality assurance mechanisms, for example. last but not least we expect technology-enabled learning to be one of the main points on the agenda at yerevan. new modes of delivery and a better use of online tools are crucial and offer a variety of opportunities for creating even more high-quality international education institutions, students and staff. the aim is the same as with traditional mobility – to ensure high-quality learning and teaching. the commission acknowledges parliament’s call to help reinvigorate and indeed accelerate the bologna goals. it also agrees with parliament’s contention that education is one of the main pillars of society when it comes to promoting jobs and growth, and that necessary funding must be guaranteed when tackling youth unemployment. reforming higher education boosts the quality and reputation of europe’s learning institutions, mobility and internationalisation, while at the same time generating sustainable growth and jobs. therefore, it is absolutely vital that countries continue on the path of structural reforms, modernising and internationalising higher education in europe to improve quality, transparency and trust. the commission welcomes parliament’s call for countries to implement the agreed reforms and to support those countries encountering difficulties in this. we both recognise the challenges that have their roots in the different context and circumstances of the various member countries. the commission agrees with parliament that countries should be supported in delivering on their commitments, for instance through partnerships or working groups to ensure better peer learning. the commission has been a strong advocate for including targeted peer learning measures in the bologna process work plan, to support full implementation, and i am pleased to note that through erasmus+, the eu is already supporting countries’ bologna reforms. last year, 20 programme countries received funding to address identified gaps in implementation, and the capacity-building strand of erasmus+ provides support to the remaining members of the bologna process. all our efforts for reform in education must be underpinned by the sharing of democratic values, in order to ensure an open, inclusive space for higher education to help sustain the future of europe and its next generations. in this spirit, commissioner navracsics looks forward to participating in the coming ministerial conference and adopting a communiqué fit for the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 28 april. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. a recent survey by the german chamber of commerce and industry has shown that german companies are dissatisfied with bachelor graduates and particularly with the amount of skills acquired. students are also often dissatisfied with their studies. they complain of too much red tape, cluttered courses and the loss of academic freedom. the objectives of the bologna reform, international mobility and more practical relevance, have not been met. the diversity of individual study options at all levels has been standardized and harmonized, and old structures have been damaged. evaluation and equalisation pressure are resource-intensive. both students and industry have recognised this deficiency and are pushing for the master's or degrees that are similar to our traditional model. at the same time, industry is complaining about the lack of dual vocational training graduates, because compulsory education is sending many young people to universities that would have been better off in a high-quality dual training system. instead of correcting errors, the experiment is being carried forward to increase the international mobility of graduates. the aim is to facilitate the international transfer of unemployed young people from the euro crisis areas, thereby reducing youth unemployment. the result is that this approach can only alleviate the symptoms of the euro crisis, but does not address its causes. in the long term, the crisis countries of southern europe will not be able to develop prospects without their young people.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr bogdan brunon wenta on european cinema in the digital age (com (2014) 272 - 2014/2148 (ini)) (a8-0123/2015).
i am not going to go into detail. we're supposed to be here at 11:00. i said earlier that i would take a few more speakers because only two colleagues were on the list. we're only allowed to have colleagues who've spoken at catch-the-eye now. i therefore ask for your understanding if i stay with these two who had already made themselves known at that time. i shall be giving the floor to mr caputo and mrs adinolfi in this catch-the-eye procedure. catch the eye
member of the commission.– mr president, the commission welcomes the support on the current state of play of the european film sector and the useful recommendations it includes. i wish to thank the honourable member mr wenta for delivering this document. it is in line with the commission’s diagnosis on the european film sector and the policy orientations that are presented in its communication of may 2014 on european film in the digital era. parliament and the commission recognise the value and wealth of european films. we also agree that the main weakness of the european film sector, compared with its us counterpart, is reaching out to wider audiences, especially across borders. in 2013, 1 546 feature films were produced in the european union and only a very small fraction of those films were released in countries outside their countries of production. of course this is linked to a number of factors, for example the linguistic and cultural diversity of the eu, the fact that european films are mostly financed with support from national or regional public funds, as well as the very small size of production companies active in the european market. at the same time we believe that the sector needs to be encouraged to develop new business practices and to reap the benefits that digital technology can bring for this purpose. so the commission has launched a stakeholder dialogue called the european film forum, which has as its main objective to bridge the gap between european films and their audiences. there will be structured dialogues with member states’ public bodies, the film industry and other stakeholders in conferences or in smaller groups in different locations on issues such as: the overall efficiency and effectiveness of policies in support of films, regardless of whether they are national, regional or european; the need to develop new working methods and business models in the face of today’s digital revolution; new strategies to increase public awareness and interest for european films and stimulate dialogue within the audiovisual sector on the impact of the forthcoming copyright reform; and review of the audiovisual media services directive in the context of the digital single market strategy. operationally the european film forum will adopt different formats depending on the issues discussed. conferences, round table discussions, workshops and expert group meetings will be held and the first deliverables of the european film forum will be shared at a major public event due to take place in brussels in the last quarter of next year. parliament will of course be involved in this process. furthermore, allow me to draw your attention to the european support programme, creative europe, and its media strand. this programme will continue to play a key role in promoting and distributing european films across borders. it promotes distribution in theatres, in particular through the network of europa cinemas. furthermore tv programming as well as video on demand services receive support. more recently the programme has taken over the preparatory action on the simultaneous release of films in cinema theatres and through video on demand, which provides incentives to the sector to innovate in the way that films are released. the creative europe guarantee facility makes available seed money to mobilise private investment and thus encourages the sector to become less reliant on public funding. as for the cultural and creative sectors guarantee facility, the commission and the european investment fund will launch this new financial instrument for the benefit of audiovisual and other creative smes early next year. in conclusion, at this time marked by the digital revolution, it is essential that a creative industry such as the film sector remains at the forefront of innovation. the commission and the creative europe media programme will support this course in the coming years.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 28 april. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the brief presentation of the report by ms elisabeth köstinger on 'a new eu forest strategy: for forests and the forest-based sector' (com (2013) 0659 - 2014/2223 (ini)) (a8-0126/2015).
we have too many words in the catch-the-eye procedure. i shall be able to give a word only to those members who have not spoken before. catch the eye
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for your time. i should also like to say a few words about the new forestry strategy. it is right and important that forestry policy should be regulated at national level. but it is equally important and necessary that, particularly in the case of crossborder challenges in the forestry and forestry sector, european thinking and action are taken. there is much that is on the right track - and i would like to support my predecessor, mrs köstinger, on a number of points - the triangle of economy, ecology and social policy, but also the very great importance of forests for rural and urban areas and, of course, the commitment to the sustainable management of the entire area. these things are on the right track. some of it is open. here again, three things are mentioned: it is very important that we get european sustainability criteria. it's imperative that we think about the fact that even though forests are continually growing, there are also limits to what we can use in the forest. and it's important that we speak up for smart use concepts in the future. this includes the use of cascades. not necessarily, but it's part of the job. for us to do that, we need to get along. i shall be pleading for that in the next few hours.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mrs köstinger very much for this own-initiative report with its 28 compromises. we have put forward a strong political message for forest owners and forestry. it is particularly important to me that the property and ownership rights of the 16 million private forest owners be strengthened and also preserved. we must not have mandatory forest management plans or cascade management, and we are firmly opposed to any interference with natura 2000 and ffh by means of planning legislation. we are very much in favour of research. forestry is the best guarantee of quality of life, sustainability, job security and value creation, especially in rural areas. forestry and climate change work on voluntary action. i now ask the commission to incorporate this own-initiative report into the forestry strategy.
member of the commission.– mr president, even though it is at a late hour, it is a pleasure to be with you tonight to discuss this important issue. i am pleased to represent the commission in areas where other colleagues are associated with the implementation of our new eu forest strategy – in particular commissioner vella, commissioner bieńkowska and commissioner arias cañete, to mention but a few. in this sense, all of us would like to thank parliament for its interest and engagement with the eu forest strategy, and in particular the rapporteur elisabeth köstinger and the shadow rapporteurs for their work on this very important own-initiative report. we are glad that the eu forest strategy was also discussed in the committee on environment, public health and food safety and in the committee on industry, research and energy. let me start by saying that, while we do not have a common forest policy, the eu has a long history of contributing through its policies to implementing sustainable forest management and to member states’ decisions on forests in line with the principle of subsidiarity. we have common values, objectives and common concerns regarding european forests and their future. moreover forests, covering 40% of the eu land area, are an essential element in our environment, our economy and our society. several eu policies have an impact on forests, including rural development, climate change, industry, environment, bio-energy and the broader bio-economy. through these policies the eu also makes a very important contribution to the implementation of sustainable forest management and member states’ decisions related to forestry and the entire forest-based sector, as well as forest protection. from a political perspective too, i would like to underline that the new forest strategy is very much in line with the political guidelines of the juncker commission. for example, the strategy addresses the issue of growth and jobs, not only in forestry but across the forest-based sector. we should not forget that the eu forest-based industries represent about 7 % of eu manufacturing gdp and almost 3.5 million jobs, in particular in rural areas. obviously this varies from member state to member state, given the large diversity of forests in the eu. for a country like finland, let me just recall that when we include pulp and paper, roughly one quarter of its total exports come from the forest sector – but the services and the economic and social environment benefits that they provide to citizens are common to all member states. therefore the forest strategy aims to ensure that such an important natural resource for our economy and society will continue to deliver its economic benefits in spite of new challenges such as climate change and related threats. but this is not all. the strategy also relates to climate change as it contributes largely to both climate mitigation and climate adaptation. it relates to biodiversity, as forests host a significant part of eu biodiversity and half of natura 2000 zones are forests and other wooded land. it relates to energy: forest biomass continues to be the most important source of renewable energy and currently accounts for around half of the eu’s total renewable energy consumption. it also relates to other broader areas such as the race for innovation and skills, or the contribution towards sustainable bio-economy. as i said, forests are very different in the eu from finland to malta, from portugal to romania, so it is clear that the principles of subsidiarity, proportionality and better regulation will be at the core of the implementation of the forest strategy. when you look at the strategy itself, the basic aim is to establish a framework for forest-based actions and support for sustainable forest management, based on the coordination of the different forest policies in member states and of eu policies and initiatives relative to forestry and related forest-based sector activities. the strategy provides a holistic approach to forest management, it covers the economic, social and environmental benefits of forests. it takes an integrated approach covering internal and external forest policy issues and addresses the whole forest value chain, considering the important contribution that the sector can make to growth and jobs in the eu and, as i said, particularly in rural areas. therefore, in accordance with the council conclusions on the forest strategy, the commission, in cooperation with the member states and stakeholders, is developing a multiannual implementation plan of the eu forest strategy, which will contain the specific actions to be carried out by the commission and the member states, with clearly defined outputs and a timetable for implementation. stakeholders will also be fully involved in this implementation. this will also increase the synergy between the work done by different commission services for the implementation of the strategy, and it would facilitate stocktaking. so the timing of the initiative is very good and the commission will carefully consider this parliament report in the preparation of the multiannual implementation plan of the eu forest strategy.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 28 april. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this compromise, the rapporteur, mr nils torvalds of the epp, and above all the negotiator, mr christopher fjellner. i think it's a good compromise. and the epp group will agree to this compromise. we'll have to make a moderate reversal. but we don't want to throw the baby out with the bath. it is not a good signal to the economic operators, to the farmers, to others who have invested, if we say a few years after we introduced the target that it was all totally wrong. there's also trust protection. i am not one of those who say that the eu's biofuels policy is the cause of all the world's problems. there's a lot of drama. much of what is done in this area is sustainable - at least more sustainable than traditional oil production. that's why it's good we're turning around. i particularly welcome the fact that we have a target for the second generation. but it's also good that we're not completely questioning everything that's been invested. the target for the second generation of modern biofuels seems modest. but we must first implement this legislation. companies need to invest, and 2020 is coming very quickly. then there will be a new proposal from the commission for the period after 2020. then we will also have, hopefully, higher targets for modern biofuels for the period after 2020. i think that with all the criticism we have to bear in mind that biofuels - whether they are first or second generation - and this directive as a whole are helping us to become more independent of oil. i think this parliament should be united in this objective.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we can all agree that we need to change the way we do agrofuels. but what is now being decided is not enough in my view. i know that 10 years ago we all had high hopes for these fuels as an alternative to fossil fuels. but those expectations have not been fulfilled. we see that today, the climate balance of agrofuels is in some cases worse than that of fossil fuels. we must take that into account. especially with palm oil or soybean oil, there's competition for the tank or the plate. i find it scandalous that the iluc factors are not being taken into account at all. of course, all the factors can be discussed, they are not perfect. but to ignore these land use conflicts at all is not a good approach. we must certainly discuss whether we can simply leave these factors out. we're going to write something down at 7%. we are, in a sense, guaranteeing protection for investments. but it keeps us on the wrong track! i do not believe in the second generation either. i'm being honest here. because once we get clear about what is being calculated as residual potential - what is supposedly usable for this - then this is not appropriate, because these residual materials do not exist in the quantity. we shall not get anywhere with this and we shall be wasting a lot of investment. we must make a shift in transport policy towards energy saving and new transport concepts. it's the only alternative.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the debate on the revision of the two directives has shown that we must in future move more towards second generation biofuels. mr häusling, these are not only straw and agricultural residues, but also new substances such as algae and others. i ask the commission: what are we doing to research and bring these new biofuels to the market? do we have a programme in the european union? we're going to need biomass for jet fuel, and very likely for trucks, where there are no alternatives yet. but in passenger transport, this has to be limited, it is not necessary, because in my view electric mobility and hydrogen technology represent alternatives. it is therefore right to really restrict first generation biofuels. we were hoping for 5.5% and now we have 7%. that will mean a lot more land use. it is therefore not good that the iluc factor does not have to be included now. after all, parliament adopted the directive back in 2009 only on condition that the iluc factor be assessed, and now we are losing many more years before that happens. this is a bad sign for eu climate policy, because the bottom line is that we are producing more emissions instead of reducing them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank mr torvalds first. the result is better than he has portrayed it. it is the right balance between protecting the confidence of investors and the demands made by this parliament, especially under the leadership of the green rapporteur, mr turmes, in 2008. i was the spokesman for my group at the time. and the value couldn't be high enough. the co2 balance of biofuels was already known at that time. that was nothing new. so, in the potatoes, out of the potatoes! i like the compromise. the result is good. the objectives set by the committee on industry and adopted at first reading have been largely achieved. the inclusion of indirect land use change as a marker for european biofuels was rejected due to a lack of scientific basis. the reporting we have done is the first step towards evaluation for the future. the 7% ceiling is good and acceptable, even if it is higher than parliament's proposals. this gives conventional biofuels a certain investment security. the operational target of 0.5% for the second generation is not, however, ambitious enough in my view. however, the quadruple count is off the table. it is regrettable that there is no separate sub-target for bioethanol. the call for a continuation beyond 2020 is positive. the overall balance between market stabilisation and co2 reduction is positive. now the commissioner is on the train, because we have decided that we want a regulation beyond 2020. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a proposal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to thank all those who have taken up this problem and who have now reached a compromise after many years of long and controversial discussions. i'm glad we reached an agreement with the council. i also believe that the compromise is a satisfactory result overall. biofuels make a major contribution to the increased use of renewable energy and to the reduction of co2 emissions. they also support our efforts to make the eu more independent of energy imports. i believe that we have found a responsible compromise on first-generation biofuels. the key here is that our policy choices are credible and sustainable. farmers and businesses need planning certainty for long-term and costly investments in their plants. i also think that the inclusion of the iluc factors in the reports, but not their inclusion, is a good choice. this gives us more time to look at comprehensive, scientifically backed studies. the report we have before us sets the course for the future. biofuels are important. however, they must not be produced at the expense of nature, in particular of areas worthy of protection.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank all those who have contributed to this compromise on plastic bags, the rapporteur margrete auken and, in the epp group, györgy hölvényi, who, as a new member, but with a lot of experience in national politics and other fields, has been negotiating for the epp. we have a real problem, a big one. there's a plastic carpet in the pacific ocean that's three times the size of the iberian peninsula. we've also discussed this in person. what we are going to decide today - hopefully by a large majority - is a first step towards tackling this problem. i also see in very concrete conversations with citizens that people are aware of this and that they see it as a positive thing that we are taking care of this problem. we are setting clear targets for the reduction of plastic bags, but i also think it is right that we leave the resources to the member states and that we do not announce a european ban. i am also counting on incentives where member states have yet to take decisions. ireland and the scandinavian countries have managed, without bans, but with incentives, with economic means, to dramatically reduce the number of plastic bags. i would recommend that member states, when considering how to implement these requirements, should also rely on market economy measures rather than bans. we must take further steps and i hope that the european commission, you, commissioner vella, and the vice-president concerned will also be considering the problem of plastic waste when you present us with an improved proposal on the circular economy in the autumn. because it's not just the lightweight plastic bags that are contributing to the problems in the world's oceans, we have to start somewhere else. we are looking forward to what the commission will present to us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking! you're often approached by people in the store saying, "i don't want plastic bags". we politicians should also set an example. many salespeople say, "yes, that should be banned". but it does suggest that the problem we're addressing, we're addressing on behalf of the people. however, i believe that systems such as ireland's, where they have charged for the lightweight plastic bags, or pawn systems are more appropriate than the ban. we still have a choice. but the results are being achieved. ireland, for example, has impressive figures.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the figures on the use of plastic bags in the european union are indeed alarming. the reasons why this should not be the case in the future are also clear. we have an enormous waste of raw materials here, an unnecessary waste of energy, a very short life span and, in addition, poor recyclability, and we see the result particularly in the world's oceans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the approach at this point is therefore entirely correct to reduce the use of plastic bags with wall thicknesses of less than 50 μm in the european union. but it's also inadequate, and it opens a back door, and it may be counterproductive in the end, because we're going to see manufacturers switch to plastic bags over 50 microns, so that more resources are wasted, more energy is wasted, and ultimately more plastic waste is dumped into the environment.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this morning, on my way to the european parliament, i saw three of them along the canal - plastic bags on the bank, in the water. recycling rate equal to zero. the more often they are disposed of in the environment. the problem is global and cannot be hidden under the water. let me be clear: hundreds of thousands of tons of plastic waste are polluting the world's oceans. there are well over 140 million tons of plastic waste stored there. up to 13 million tons are added annually. many are already talking about the seventh continent, 3.4 million square kilometers, in the middle of the pacific ocean between california and hawaii, larger than india, and made entirely of plastic waste. i keep telling my kids not to carry those plastic bags over their heads, but that's how a lot of marine animals die. it is good that we in europe are now taking action against the bubonic plague. let's make it our business to find ways to collect and recycle plastic waste. let's conquer the seventh continent and relieve the environment. i mean, we have to talk about this a lot more often, too.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner vella, you are also responsible for maritime policy. i can also only repeat that many of the plastic bags end up in the waters, first in the rivers, then in the oceans. we have these giant garbage patches in the pacific ocean. my colleague even talked about a seventh continent. we know that this plastic material is very durable, and we know that it also has a diabolical quality: the fish think it's food, they swallow all the stuff, they rot or they get sick. so there is a great need for action to reduce this plastic flood. i would also say that plastic bags should no longer be given away free of charge in the european union. there must be a price to pay for it, if you want a plastic bag and maybe need one. there may be ways to ban parts of it, because we have alternatives. in other areas of legislation, we do the same thing, we ban the worse methods and allow the better ones. i would like to thank mrs margarete auken. it has remained faithful to the aims of parliament. that wasn't easy in the trilogy. the commission even wanted to withdraw the dossier. it's good that we have this result, a good law. commissioner vella, it is now your duty to put it into practice.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i believe that mrv is a first step. it is not a tool for reducing costs, but for generating data, for comparing, for getting an overall picture of the situation in the sector. it was mentioned that it is a small area. shipping accounts for 3% of global greenhouse gas emissions. nevertheless, we are seeing an increase in trade flows. that's going to be a problem in the next few years. so mrv is certainly a good basis, a small step forward to get an international agreement at the end of the day, because that's where the journey has to go. this must be the course we take in international negotiations. we are seeing this at icao. i have a little déjà vu experience, i must say. the icao is in a tough spot and there is a debate at the moment whether international air traffic should be offset. of course, this is not the way the event is going to go, i must say. everyone has to do their part. we'd better take it international. nevertheless, we should also reserve the right to take action if international agreements are not reached, as we do in other areas. that is why i would like to hear from the commissioner: how are the negotiations at the imo level going at the moment? what can we expect? does the commission have a plan b in case the international negotiations at the imo fail, so that we do not agree to some diapery compromise there and stop the clock again, then start again and then stop again, just like in air transport?
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr faria. i was told he negotiated this brilliantly. mr bas eickhout said he had taken over on short notice. that's right! but he's a columbus successor, he's portuguese, and he's got emsa on his doorstep. if anyone can do it, he can. so, for that, i have to give a big compliment to my colleagues. there is a great deal of agreement in this house that this was an important thing for climate protection, so we are now setting up a monitoring system for shipping. but i think it's not just important for global climate change, it's also important for the ocean. i am a big supporter of an integrated maritime policy - many people know this - and the fact is that the ocean will be used economically much more in the future. it is particularly important to protect not only biodiversity but also the climate. shipping will increase. that's what everybody says, and it's the big ships that are causing the emissions. we're going to record it now, and then we're going to report it. what is important, as my colleague mr torvalds said, is that really - because it concerns all the flags in europe - everyone is involved in the fact that this is controlled by the commission, so it is also your task, mr arias cañete, and it is good that all the flags are involved. that's what i think. the shipowners will have to report. it is good that alde has succeeded in simplifying this reporting procedure compared with the commission proposal, that transparency is involved and that very sensitive economic data can also be excluded. i would like to say that i am very pleased that we are now taking the lead again as europe and trying to influence the imo. we need this! we have already achieved a number of things in the seca sulphur emission zones, and if we can do that here, it would be great for global shipping and for all of us on climate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report today because, as a member of the european parliament from mecklenburg-western pomerania and a socialist, i am very concerned about the rules applicable to seafarers and the proposal takes sufficient account of the concerns of smes.
in writing. i welcome the vote on the international convention on standards for the training of personnel on board fishing vessels. it is important that minimum standards for training and continuing training in europe are set for all workers. in addition, working hours must be observed. this ensures that the personnel on board are sufficiently qualified and fit to perform this difficult and demanding task. this ultimately leads to the minimisation of potential hazards and can significantly increase the safety of seafarers on board. the aim of continuing vocational training is also to create a level playing field in the fisheries sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report by mrs gardiazábal rubial on the revision of the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 because it is a technical, overall well-balanced process of the amending budget, which i support in this form.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a good day for the security of citizens in the european union. the ecall system also completes our strategy. we used to have a single emergency number, now we have an ecall system. it is also right that it should be installed in every car and that it should be automatically activated in an emergency. i would also ask those who are critical to speak out and discuss the question: what do you do when there are several people in the car, who is responsible, when you can turn this ecall system on or off? i don't want to take that responsibility. i therefore prefer the solution proposed here and am glad that parliament has voted accordingly.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the 112-based ecall is our baby. i want to thank you for not letting the whistleblowers fool you. our ecall, based on the european emergency number 112, will now become a matter of course in cars and light commercial vehicles in a few years, as seat belts have been for decades. my efforts are continuing to ensure that motorcycles, heavy trucks and buses have such a life-saving system. until then, it's probably just one small step. anyone who has suffered road traffic accidents with fatalities or serious injuries has had to support ecall today.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction of the in-vehicle ecall system. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the impact of the accident on the environment. this can cost rescuers valuable time, which can mean life or death. i therefore welcome the fact that from 31 march 2018 car manufacturers will have to make ecall mandatory in their new cars. the ecall system automatically alerts emergency services via the 112 emergency number after a major accident, thus helping to save lives. this shall ensure that data protection is ensured.
in writing. ‒ i have campaigned for the introduction of the ecall system in vehicles. the new technology will trigger an automatic 112 call in the event of an accident to reduce the time until rescuers arrive. in parliament we decided that from 2018 every new vehicle must have ecall technology. there are still far too many people dying on europe's roads. innovative technology has enabled rescuers to reach the scene of an accident more quickly. it was therefore important to me that this system in new cars was not voluntary but compulsory.
in writing. ‒ the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has tabled a draft law in parliament which requires car manufacturers to introduce an in-vehicle emergency call system in all 28 european countries. i think that such a system can be useful, and i could afford to install such a system. i wonder why the european commission should be concerned with this. i think that this should be left to the manufacturers and, above all, to the drivers in the countries themselves. a single emergency number (112) is certainly a matter that should be regulated throughout europe and thus also in brussels. this is an example of 'more europe' that i can join. but to require that all countries install such costly systems at the same time is too much. this should be left to the manufacturers, the countries and above all the drivers themselves. that is why i voted against it today.
in writing. ‒ ecall systems are designed to automatically transmit position data and direction of travel to the emergency call centre in the event of an accident. the use of modern technology to improve road safety is generally welcome. however, a red line has been crossed when this data can theoretically be used to create movement profiles of all motorists. the fdp therefore considered it important that motorists should have the freedom to manually disable the ecall system if they do not wish to use it. this freedom of choice would have been possible without complications with the on/off button in the car proposed by the liberals. the majority of the house has unfortunately voted for the glass driver today. despite the promise that data will only be transmitted in the event of an accident, used properly and deleted immediately after analysis, there is a risk that personal data may be collected, stored and used for other purposes. therefore, the fdp rejects ecall in this form.
in writing. ‒ ecall systems are designed to automatically transmit position data and direction of travel to the emergency call centre in the event of an accident. the use of modern technology to improve road safety is generally welcome. however, a red line has been crossed when this data can theoretically be used to create movement profiles of all motorists. the fdp therefore considered it important that motorists should have the freedom to manually disable the ecall system if they do not wish to use it. this freedom of choice would have been possible without complications with the on/off button in the car proposed by the liberals. the majority of the house has unfortunately voted for the glass driver today. despite the promise that data will only be transmitted in the event of an accident, used properly and deleted immediately after analysis, there is a risk that personal data may be collected, stored and used for other purposes. therefore, the fdp rejects ecall in this form.
in writing. ‒ ecall systems are designed to automatically transmit position data and direction of travel to the emergency call centre in the event of an accident. the use of modern technology to improve road safety is generally welcome. but i think we've crossed a red line when we can theoretically use this data to create motion profiles of all motorists. the fdp therefore considered it important that motorists should have the freedom to manually switch off the ecall system if they do not want to use it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented in a uniform manner.
in writing. ‒ i cannot support the proposal to require, by means of a regulation, an automatic emergency call system for all newly registered vehicles from 2018. this automatic emergency call system is designed to reduce the number of accident victims in the eu. i agree that the so-called ecall system can reduce the number of victims of accidents, since the emergency call centre 112 is alerted more quickly in the event of a serious accident. however, this comes at the cost of threatening to have a nationwide surveillance of all vehicles and their movements. the emergency call system, which works over the cellular network, will produce motion data. i am not clear how it can be excluded that government authorities can access this data. despite the improvements in data protection, i'm skeptical. forcing the system to be installed is even if the monitoring concerns could be addressed in any case completely disproportionate. each vehicle buyer should be able to decide for himself whether he wants to operate such a system. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. biofuels have come under criticism in recent years, particularly due to imports that have not been produced sustainably. the decision takes up this criticism in the context of a compromise. it does not abruptly end the production of biofuels, it also guarantees a 7% cap on conventional biofuels, it does not say goodbye to its emissions targets, and it says that at least 0.5% of biofuels should come from the second or third generation. i have two final wishes. the first wish is that we should also look at how the indirect land use method is actually suitable for reflecting the things we want to reflect appropriately, as part of the entry into force of the necessary regulation. i have my doubts. secondly, we must also look beyond 2020 in the interests of industry. the economy needs investment security and so does society.
in writing. ‒ i supported the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive. i am glad that we have been able to advance this complex, technical and technological dossier. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. we have been committed to the development of new generation biofuels (e.g. from algae) while at the same time preserving the agricultural production of 'classic' biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel in a tolerable and appropriate framework and thus securing the investments made. on the positive side, the compromise reached between parliament and council means that the scientifically very questionable and highly controversial factors for indirect land use change (iluc factors) are initially used only for reporting purposes. this allows the iluc factors to be tested for their practicability. without this solution, the future of biofuels would be uncertain.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree to the amendment of the fuel quality directive and the renewable energy directive. i welcome the aim of reducing the share of biofuels. the argument is correct that the forced blending or use of biofuels creates competition in how agricultural land is used. the amendment to the directive reduces the proportion. i cannot agree with this, however, because it is not the legislator's job to determine the quality and composition of fuels. this can be reserved for the automobile industry and its customers. it is therefore the wrong approach to say that biofuels should now be produced from alternative sources such as algae or waste instead. the central planning hubris of being able to determine the proportion of biofuels to be used is not the problem of the production of the product itself.
in writing. ‒ i agreed to the report on reducing the use of plastic bags because the compromise reached is a big step in the right direction. the legislation, now formally approved, is intended to tackle the problem of the growing plastic waste in the world's oceans. the compromise provides for a maximum of 90 plastic bags to be used by 31 december 2019 and 40 per capita per year by the end of 2025. the choice of means is largely left to the discretion of the member states. they can ban conventional plastic bags or use economic instruments such as bonds or fees. i believe that although the member states have a free hand in this matter, bans are not the best way to do it. the experience of ireland shows that people change their behaviour once market economy measures are introduced. this illustrates the enormous reduction in the consumption of single-use plastic bags after the introduction of a levy and thus the end of the free distribution of single-use plastic bags.
in writing. ‒ i abstained today in the vote on the efdd amendment to the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 94/62/ec on the reduction of the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags, because i think the compromise proposal is so good.
in writing. ‒ in the eu, we use 100 billion plastic bags a year. that's too much, because it takes centuries for these to be broken down by nature. i therefore supported the directive on the reduction of the use of lightweight plastic carrier bags. it was important to me that the directive should give member states the possibility to implement the requirements in accordance with their individual situation. in the light of the subsidiarity principle, they now have two options: either they put a price on plastic bags by the end of 2018, or they cap the annual consumption of plastic bags at 90 bags per person by the end of 2019 and 40 by the end of 2025. in some countries, this figure is currently over 400. although germany is already well on its way with about 70 bags per person per year, it can also learn from good practices in finland, denmark or luxembourg. in these countries, bags are often reused or spent much less in the first place.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament voted on tuesday to reduce plastic waste in the eu. the aim is to reduce the average annual consumption of thin plastic bags per person from around 200 to 90 by 2019 and to 40 bags per year per citizen by 2025. i voted against it. the union does, however, leave the member states a generous choice of how to achieve this objective. but if the goal is not right, then every path is wrong. of course, i can see the goal of reducing plastic pollution. the first environmental problem is the misuse of plastic bags. some people throw plastic bags into rivers and other bodies of water, polluting the environment others do not. however, charges affect all people equally, not just polluters. so you punish all citizens, even though only a few are misbehaving. i don't think that's a fair approach. a more proportionate solution would be to punish violations of environmental protection regulations with a firm hand.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring, reporting and verification of carbon dioxide emissions from maritime transport and amending directive 2009/16/ec, because i consider the draft text to be good and balanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on the council position with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 223/2009 on european statistics, because i welcome the approach it takes.
in writing. ‒ in today's vote on 'european statistics', i voted in favour with most, if not all, of my colleagues in the ecr group. if brussels is useful, it is certainly in the preparation of data which will enable members of the european parliament and the national parliaments to make comparisons on the basis of objective data.
in writing. ‒ i have today voted in favour of referring back to the committee responsible the multiannual plan for cod, herring and sprat stocks in the baltic sea and for the fisheries exploiting those stocks, partly because it contains management plans which specifically require fishermen to set fishing days, times of closure, mesh sizes and minimum sizes. i mean, you have to let the fishermen decide when they want to catch the amount they're allocated. if they have used up their days - currently it is 147 days for cod, for example - they have no way of using up their quota. no fisherman can feed his family like that.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (ec) no 850/98, (ec) no 2187/2005, (ec) no 1967/2006, (ec) no 1098/2007, (ec) no 254/2002, (ec) no 2347/2002 and (ec) no 1224/2009 and repealing council regulation (ec) no 1434/98 as regards the landing obligation, as i believe that further derogations for coastal fisheries are necessary. it is absolutely absurd that our baltic fishermen should have to destroy young, viable by-catches just because they cannot throw them back into the sea - that does not spare our fish stocks, that destroys them.
in writing. ‒ a coherent, transparent and high-quality higher education is a key factor in europe's cultural, economic and social development. this report gives a good overview of developments since the bologna declaration was signed in 1999. the aim of the bologna process was to modernise, harmonise and adapt higher education to the challenges of the present day. however, much remains to be done to achieve this goal. the reform of higher education is improving the quality and reputation of european educational institutions and promoting mobility and internationalisation. it is therefore essential that countries continue to push forward with structural reforms and reforms to modernise and internationalise higher education in europe. that is why i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on monitoring the implementation of the bologna process because i think it is a good approach.
in writing. ‒ since my time as president of the leibniz association and my more than 10 years as an honorary professor at the university of mannheim, i have been both an active designer and a person affected by the so-called bologna process. there are certainly advantages to be seen in the standardisation of the european educational landscape. but as is often the case with european projects, bologna has become a bureaucratic monster. professors, university administrators and students are constantly reporting on the increasing reporting requirements, bureaucracy and red tape that are coming at the expense of education and research. the fact that 'unity' is now being replaced by 'diversity' can also be seen in the fact that, for example, the german educational advantage of 'diploma engineer' has been undermined and that humanities subjects in particular often have nothing to do with 'bachelor' and 'master'. moreover, if education policy is not a federal but a state matter even in germany, why does brussels take on this responsibility? of course i had to vote against this motion!
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on european cinema in the digital age because i welcome its approach and consider it useful to promote both the european film industry and the digitisation of valuable programme cinemas in europe.
in writing. ‒ a draft law on european cinema was presented today. the digital age clearly requires a european digital single market. but when i saw the european film, i got stubborn. i know german films, mostly better french films, exciting hollywood films, mysterious films from japan, but i have never seen a "european film" before. i don't want to see him either. just the thought of it makes me yawn. this reminds me of the failed attempts of the automobile industry to sell a 'european car'. soon there will be european cheese or a european football team. i'd rather stick with my hsv. what are they doing in brussels? we want cultural diversity and not a single european dough. one could say, somewhat polemically, that the opposite of diversity is simplicity. i had to vote against this motion!
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report by mrs köstinger on 'a new eu forest strategy: for forests and the forest-based sector' because i believe that the sustainable management of our forests is an absolutely key issue for future generations.
in writing. ‒ as a member of the european parliament for west-lower saxony, i am particularly interested in rural areas. i have therefore supported the eu-wide strategy on forestry. it aims to exploit the full potential of the forestry sector, both in terms of its benefits to nature and the environment and its economic value to society. the new strategy aims to reconcile the multiple and sometimes conflicting demands on forests from the different eu policies such as nature conservation, energy, climate change and the economy. we have, as christian democrats, spoken out against unnecessary bureaucracy and overregulation in the legislative process. i have therefore rejected three amendments in the plenary which were in the way of the holistic approach to sustainable forest management. subsidiary and meaningful management criteria must be the objective. we all benefit from our forests, which cover 40% of the eu's land area. they are an important resource for improving the quality of life and creating jobs.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, all european states and all european citizens should have the right to live their lives in safe, secure and tolerant societies, but we are painfully aware that there are constant and evolving threats to our internal security. the recent terrorist attacks in brussels, paris and copenhagen shocked us all. europeans were united in the response to terror. we will fight terrorism jointly and we will stand firm in defending european values, freedoms and the rule of law. instability in europe’s neighbourhood and radicalisation in our societies at home mean that the terrorist threat is real and present. organised crime groups continue their illicit activities and will find ways to exploit evolving technologies, changes in the economy and societal developments to make money by robbing law-abiding communities, by the trafficking of people, drugs and firearms, or by facilitating illegal migration or any number of cross-border criminal activities. the internet and e-commerce offer huge advantages for europeans as individuals and for our companies, but it is also a new playground for cyber- criminals. these criminal activities increasingly feed each other: a terrorist cyber-attack on critical infrastructure, firearms trafficking that provides weapons for criminals, and drugs money that ends up financing terrorism. dirty money is the fuel that keeps all these criminal activities going. these criminal and terrorist networks also operate very effectively across borders, so whilst national security remains primarily a matter for member states, there is clear added value in european cooperation to address the nexus between these criminal activities. today, we present a european security agenda which updates and renews the former internal security strategy, and i call on this house and on member states to sign up to it and share it as our agenda for working better together on security. because in this area, no single european country is able to effectively tackle the challenges on its own. over the past decade the eu, with great help from this house, has put in place a european security framework for information exchange, for operational cooperation, for pooling of knowledge and expertise, for better coordination, including via european agencies such as europol and eurojust. it is a framework that complements and enhances the essential work that national authorities do every day and helps them to be more effective in fighting cross-border crime and terrorism. there have been numerous success stories. in 2014, operation archimedes brought thousands of police officers from several member states together in a joint one-week exercise which delivered impressive results: 1 150 criminals arrested, out of them 90 human traffickers and 170 facilitators to illegal immigration; one million euros in cash seized and tonnes of various types of drugs seized. this is just one example of what can be achieved when law enforcement follows a multidisciplinary and multinational approach. but our analysis suggests that member states are still under-using this framework for coordination, information exchange and cooperation. there is still mistrust and reticence to cooperate even more closely by using the tools in place to the full. we need to change the culture and modus operandi of our law enforcement community. so the most important message of the agenda is that, together, we need to make an effort to be more effective in providing security to our citizens. the lisbon treaty has given us the right basis by bringing this area into the normal treaty structure, and giving this house the responsibility which you are effectively seizing, to co-decide legislation and exercise democratic scrutiny in this area. working better together means also in full compliance with fundamental rights and respecting the principles of necessity and proportionality. our agenda is very concrete and detailed on what needs to be done. as this house has suggested in its resolution on the future internal security strategy, the focus is on the better use or sharpening of the existing instruments before proposing new ones. firstly, we have a number of ongoing legislative proposals that need to be agreed by the co-legislators as soon as possible – the reform of europol, eurojust, and cepol, as well as data protection reform, without forgetting eu pnr and pnr sharing agreements with third countries. secondly, we have identified a number of legislative instruments that need to be reviewed – our 2008 terrorism framework decision, which currently does not cover foreign fighters, and our firearms directive which the ongoing evaluation shows is clearly not stringent enough. it is unacceptable that a kalashnikov can be bought easily on the internet. we also need to update our main legal tool in fighting fraud and counterfeiting non-cash means of payment, which dates back to 2001, to today’s reality in financial payments, virtual money included. if we want to be ahead of fast-evolving environmental crimes, we will need to have a fresh look at the legislative framework on sanctions. the exploratory work, as requested by co-legislators, on the non-conviction-based confiscation of criminally acquired property, will also continue. the existing criminal record sharing database needs to be improved, because we need to share these data better so that we can also cover third-country nationals who have committed crime in europe. as you see, there is quite a lot of work on the table, also for the european parliament, so anybody who complains that timmermans is not giving you enough work, please look at this agenda.thirdly, the agenda will require extra effort from the full national and european law enforcement community to transform it into operational reality. we need more sharing of data, effective operational cooperation and additional trust—building measures. in particular we should develop judicial cooperation to complement law enforcement cooperation. the existing european agencies need to be sufficiently equipped and work together more closely. the commission will align the available financial resources to the priorities of the agenda. whilst this framework is of course suited to tackling all sorts of threats to internal security, given today’s challenges we need to focus our attention on the three challenges i have mentioned – terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. the challenges are not new but they have become more varied and complex. we need to do better. our existing law enforcement tools and cooperation methods are not sufficient. we need to do better. both the european parliament and the national parliaments will be part of the monitoring process of the implementation of the agenda. we are proposing a twice-yearly discussion with this house on the implementation of the agenda. such a regular joint stocktaking will allow us to be more forward-looking and easily adaptable to evolving situations. i think it is now important, if you permit, mr president, that i hand over to dimitris avramopoulos who is primarily responsible for this file as commissioner.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members i am particularly happy to present to you here in the european parliament the agenda, as adopted by the commission just three minutes ago. it could not be fresher! the european citizens expect from all of us that we work together, in a coordinated way, in order to ensure their security and protect their rights and freedom. they expect from us that we trust each other, share information and effectively work together to coordinate concrete actions and operations. because new and complex security threats have emerged, that are increasingly cross-border and cross-sectorial in nature, we cannot but face them together. this is the meaning of the shared agenda that we put to your and to member states’ consideration. it is a common agenda based on principles and priorities, on which we should all – parliament, member states, the commission and its agencies – play our role in ensuring our citizens’ security. that is why we are asking you to evaluate and endorse this agenda. we will have the opportunity of debating and working together on each specific element of this agenda in the next five years, but today i think it is important to agree on a common european agenda on security in order to meet citizens’ expectations. the agenda sets out five key principles that should guide eu action on security. firstly, full compliance with fundamental rights. secondly, transparency, accountability and democratic control for citizens’ confidence. the european parliament plays a key role in this. thirdly, better application and implementation of existing instruments, as this house has as well requested many times, before assessing whether additional eu tools are necessary, in full compliance with the principles of necessity and proportionality. fourthly, full use of eu agencies and all eu policies that contribute – directly or indirectly – to security. fifthly, to bring together all internal and external dimensions of security with a targeted coordination of our internal and foreign policies. for instance, we will present a consistent eu approach for all future pnr requests from third countries. the agenda sets out concrete actions to turn these key principles into a political reality. for example, in december 2014, this house adopted a resolution on what it considered the necessary elements of an eu strategy on internal security and you made clear that the utmost priority was to use better the existing instruments, both at legislative and operational level. we have listened very carefully and put this principle into action in this agenda. look for example to our proposal for enhancing the existing capacities of europol. it is not a question of creating new information networks, but to make sure that all information already available in the member states is also put at the disposal of europol, under its strict framework for data protection. the centre would therefore assemble in one single structure the functions already existing in the agency on terrorist financing, illicit trafficking of firearms and foreign terrorist fighters, as well as on detection of violent extremist content online. eurojust will also be associated with the centre. this new capacity will support more effectively the action of member states in their investigations and prosecutions of terrorist cases. this is our main goal: to make sure that the agency is able to fully implement its mandate. let me now present the three main priorities we will address in the next five years. firstly, tackling terrorism. as you will see, we will not only work on repressive measures but we will also focus on prevention. social cohesion policy, education, employment, justice, but also the cooperation with key third countries, are crucial for the eu response to address the root causes of extremism and radicalisation. the commission will set up a centre of excellence to collect and disseminate expertise on anti-radicalisation, building upon the radicalisation awareness network. this will strengthen the exchange of experience among practitioners directly engaged in preventing radicalisation and violent extremism at local level. we plan to update the framework decision on terrorism: to provide a more coherent legal framework to deal with the foreign fighters phenomenon. this will allow for intensified cooperation with third countries on this issue. we will also launch an eu forum with major it companies to counter terrorist propaganda on the internet and in social media. secondly, disrupting organised crime: we go through various forms of organised crime linked by one principle: cutting the financing of criminals. the cooperation between competent authorities in europe, in particular national financial intelligence units, which will be connected to europol, will be strengthened while we will assess the necessity of new legislation to counter terrorist financing and improve confiscation of property derived from criminal activities. we plan to strength the legal framework on firearms to address the illegal trafficking and reactivation of weapons, to establish common standards, share more information and boost cooperation with third countries. and i cannot today refrain from mentioning our priority to fight the organised criminals exploiting the need of some people for protection and better life perspectives, in other words, smugglers and traffickers. thirdly, fighting cybercrime: one of our priorities is to assess whether the current tools for the law-enforcement authorities are sufficient to address online investigations notably on issues of competent jurisdiction and rules on access to internet-based evidence and information. these three areas are interlinked and have a strong relevance to cross-border crime. it is exactly here where the european union and its actions can make a real difference for ensuring security. the agenda also proposes steps to strengthen the pillars of eu action on internal security: better information exchange; increased operational cooperation; more targeted support through training, funding, research and innovation. it is through these actions that the european union gives added value to the work of member states. these three pillars are the ones based on which this agenda can evolve in the course of five years to adapt to new threats and challenges. this was just a brief presentation of the european agenda on security adopted, as i said at the beginning, by the commission today. i want to stress, to underscore again: this agenda is not just the response to the recent tragic events. this agenda has been a priority for president juncker and this commission and defines the union’s approach to internal security that is based on our common values, including the rule of law and fundamental rights. it also has to be seen in conjunction with the future agenda on migration which will further develop issues of border management and smuggling of migrants. i look forward to a deep and, as always, sincere cooperation with you in order very soon to be in a position to deliver what we have assumed as a responsibility in the eyes of european public opinion, european citizens, to guarantee their safety and security.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank the two commissioners - you, mr timmermans, and you, mr avramopoulos - very warmly for presenting your priorities to us in this parliament so promptly and so quickly. the first thing i welcomed was the commission's intention to make security a greater priority. secondly, i welcomed the idea of strengthening and optimising existing instruments and improving their use accordingly. there is certainly room for improvement in the area of prüm and other areas of data exchange, and for a strong degree of rigor in data exchange, as this house has called for across party lines. i also find it very positive that you want to review and tackle the european criminal record system epris with cross-border access to information from national criminal records and to see a common information space for the maritime sector further optimized. i have one more question, however, and i should like to make it very clear: i sometimes get the impression that the commission is very reticent about staffing the organisations that are supposed to do this - such as europol. we have an ec3, now we want to add a counter-terrorism center or a platform - whatever - but they also need the personnel to be able to handle the corresponding operations at all. europol is already unable to deal with nearly 50% of requests from member states due to a lack of staff. and these are not harmless requests. that is why we are asking you to consider the necessary staff for the steps we need to take.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr avramopoulos began his speech by saying that, of course, fundamental rights must be respected and that we need democratic control. i agree with that. but at the same time i think it is very dramatic that we have to repeat these self-evident facts. mr timmermans began by saying: 'everyone wants to live in safety.' and i would add that this is certainly true for at least 99% of all people who are legally resident in our member states. safe and peaceful coexistence - i think everyone can agree with me - is where fear, intolerance and ignorance are very bad advisors. i therefore welcome the commission's intention to take a step forward in the area of integration and social inclusion, because radicalisation goes both ways: on the one hand, some people become islamists and plan attacks, and on the other hand, there are other people in our countries who also become radicalised by rejecting everything foreign. so inclusion is a task that is addressed to a lot of different groups in our population. i therefore welcome the issue of centres of excellence because i believe that while it is right to put the finger on the wound and to make it clear where there is still room for improvement in our member states, we must also promote the best examples of how things can be done. firstly, the commissioners made it clear that they would focus on the full implementation of existing measures. i agree with that. and i hope that this commission will actually have the power to, in a way, slap the council on the table so that this actually happens. i have a group of visitors coming over and i'm afraid i won't be able to follow the debate to the end. but i think it is highly dramatic that our member states pass laws here with us and then forget about them on the way to the capitals and do not implement them. we need clear mechanisms for this. it is right that we must fight human trafficking. we have adopted a directive on this at european level. but to mention migration in this context of security policy, so as to give the impression that refugees are a problem, i think that is not very clever.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we naturally welcome the commission's ambition to improve coordination at european level in this important area. the approach is correct that the security agenda must be a shared agenda of the member states and the union. i do not want to hide the fact that we are a little disappointed with the foreign policy part, which has largely been left out, probably on the grounds that there will be extra work to be done in the context of the revision. we would have liked to have had a jointly agreed report. we welcome the commission's intention to work even more pre-emptively with third countries. it is a good example that the work of the ran centre of excellence on de-radicalisation will be available and extended in the future to countries such as turkey, the western balkans, the middle east and north africa. the fight against terrorism must - you said so, mr vice-president, and we agree with that - go hand in hand with a dialogue on human rights and the rule of law. otherwise, we may be providing the breeding ground for radicalization. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am, however, very surprised that you have yet to examine the need for further action in the area of terrorist financing. i'm sure that's a typo that can be corrected in the next edition.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank you for taking a broader view of the question of security, and the question is therefore the right one: how do we want to guarantee security in europe in the future? i think we're not good enough in terms of security policy. but i believe that the european security policy will depend on two factors: firstly, on the capability - civilian and military - but also on the political will, which we should also use to shape the common policy here. what i was missing in your good presentation of a security agenda, however, was the question of a kind of overall concept, the question of security, including through military, nato, intelligence, counter-espionage or the use of new technologies. although this should be a deterrent in terms of responsibilities, it is part of a comprehensive approach. how do we respond to the growing threat to our economy and infrastructure, including cyberattacks? we also need a defense here that secures our foundations. a new study shows that many european companies are also affected. we have to think about military issues, about solutions, about how a civil defence system can work in cyberspace. i think it has to go beyond the current situation. we must also look at the structures to get better results in the end. cooperation and data exchange are a good start, but we must not stop there. modern security today also depends on data analysis. we need bank records, travel records, but also communications records. this is a key element of our security, so that we can guarantee it in the future.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me start by expressing my gratitude to ms macovei and to all the shadow rapporteurs for their intensive work on this file. this interim report sets out the position of parliament in the clearest possible way. and i am pleased that it is supportive of the commission’s overall objective: to create a european public prosecutor’s office which will be able to make a decisive difference in combating fraud on the eu budget. i am committed to put it in place by 2016. creating this office will lead to a real change in how crimes against the financial interests of the union are tackled. however, we are not there yet. negotiations are still ongoing in the council and they are very complex. we try hard to fully secure the independence and efficiency of the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo). in that regard, i would like to thank you for supporting an open, objective and transparent appointment procedure for members of the eppo. in addition, i agree that we need clear rules on national competences as well as strong competences for the eppo. the eppo’s workload attribution should be organised based on objective criteria, and its working procedures need to be in accordance with the treaties, the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. i plead that we all keep an open mind: there is no template or precedent for the eppo; there are no ready-made solutions which we could just replicate. in this context, the commission has doubts whether the cross-border investigation regime applicable to the eppo should follow the regime established by the european investigation order directive. this is an instrument with great added value for the judicial cooperation between the member states. but it seems less suitable for an eppo working as an indivisible, european body – as a single office. in our view, the transfer of the competence to investigate and prosecute eu fraud requires a simple and efficient sui generis regime for the eppo’s cross-border investigations which operates in full respect of procedural rights and the charter. it should reflect its operational needs and thus depart from the traditional intergovernmental cooperation instruments, in particular with regard to the grounds for refusal and the regime of judicial authorisation. in the area of justice, where the eppo will act as an indivisible and single european body, there is no need for a duplication of judicial authorisations for investigative measures. a similar question applies to the proposal that it should be up to the european court of justice to ensure the judicial review of all eppo acts. this would certainly overburden the court. we are not talking about a dozen cases a year: we are talking about hundreds, if not thousands of cases! the treaty allows and calls on us to create a specific system which is adapted to the eppo’s specific nature. what we have proposed fully respects the right of effective judicial protection and the institutional position of the european court of justice as the supreme interpreter of union law.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are having a debate on an important subject and the main interlocutor is missing, namely the member states, that is to say the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is one of the few occasions where we can have this debate. i would like to say that what has been put on the table by the european prosecutor so far is not at all sufficient for the council's deliberations and debate. we are destined to succeed in this matter, and we are here to remind the council that we need an efficient authority, that we do not need an authority that makes difficult decisions and cannot do exactly what it is supposed to do, which is to fight cross-border crime. i'm disappointed in what we have here. i myself am co-rapporteur on the substantive legal basis of what the european prosecutor will then have to do. we have so far had five trilogues and are working very hard to promote this issue in the member states. we see that there is a constant effort to avoid delegating powers to the european level in the very area where this level needs powers, namely in all matters relating to crossborder crime. i hope that this house will not agree to a legal basis which excludes vat. we need a european public prosecutor's office to deal with crossborder vat fraud cases, which are already suffering because the member states are not doing their job and their job here. i would like to tell you that the european public prosecutor's office's case file is in a dramatic state. that is why it is important that we get the council to talk to us. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mrs gräßle, i welcome the fact that, if i understand you correctly, you are opposed to the introduction of the european public prosecutor's office. however, welcome him - if i understand correctly - for cross-border crime. is that right? do you think that in the case of transnational crime, there is a need for a prosecutor for a state that does not exist? the eu is not a state. that's why she can't have a prosecutor. i think that's a point you might want to explain again. i may have misunderstood you. the eu is not a state and cannot have a prosecutor, either for national or international prosecutions.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear mrs von storch, we know that the corner lawyer is your domain. i want to tell you that i am firmly in favour of the introduction of the european public prosecutor. it has its own legal basis in the treaty of lisbon, whatever your opinion. that european prosecutor must come and will come. that is the legal basis. i'm telling you, what we need is a chief prosecutor. and a chief prosecutor is needed, with or without a state, for transnational crimes.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the annual damage to the eu budget and thus to european taxpayers caused by fraud in the member states is unknown. the estimate is 500 million euros, or even 2 to 3 billion euros. what we do know is that the prosecution of crimes such as fraud involving eu funds by national authorities leaves much to be desired. in this context, it is time that the european public prosecutor's office is created - yes, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon, and mrs von storch can read that again - and that this office can start its work. crimes against the eu's financial interests, which often take place across borders, must be fought vigorously. they're not the crimes of chivalry. europe must act in its own interest and that of its citizens. in principle, our group supports the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. it would be an important step towards the effective protection of the eu's financial interests and would be equally important for the strengthening of the common european legal area. the member states are currently negotiating the design of the european public prosecutor's office, and the council must ultimately decide unanimously. unfortunately, parliament is not involved in this matter through the ordinary legislative procedure, but the council must know that even if it is not present, i hope the message will be conveyed to it: it needs the approval of this house. the second interim report of parliament, which we are debating today, is therefore timely, because it sends a clear message to the member states and their negotiators. i would like to make it quite clear to our group that we are not going to give the member states a blank cheque for our approval. firstly, we want a european public prosecutor's office that is independent independent of any influence from the member states. this requires not only a transparent procedure for the appointment of european prosecutors, but also the involvement of parliament in the selection of persons in the prosecutor general and the european prosecutors . secondly, we want a clear division of powers between the european public prosecutor's office and the competent national authorities. the european public prosecutor's office should be able to provide the necessary information to the public. but just as important, the procedural rights of the accused must not be undermined. and of course, a high level of data protection must be ensured. moreover, contrary to what seems to be the view in some capitals, we do not believe that the job of european prosecutor can be a part-time side job. we will therefore be watching closely to see whether these and other demands of parliament are taken into account by the council, and it will be - i want to make this very clear - on this that our approval of the project will ultimately depend. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. it's the other way around. the experience of recent years shows that unfortunately - as the rapporteur, mrs macovei, has also pointed out - fraud is not being detected efficiently in a number of member states and we have quite high amounts of fraud. that is why we have this project of the european public prosecutor's office. i'm glad you did, i have to say. i was a member of the constitutional convention at the time, and i was in favour of the creation of this office to fight fraud against financial interests.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs macovei, for her hard work. it is true that we have a result, an interim report, which is now being sent to the council. we are not here to take part in the decision-making process, but to say yes or no at the end. the signal is therefore clear: if the member states, who are unfortunately not here for this debate, do not accept the message we are sending and do not incorporate the amendments we propose in their proposal, then there will be no support for such a prosecution here anyway. the member states must know this. on the other hand, it is also clear that a very large majority in this house has been in favour of the establishment of such a prosecutor's office for some time. we'll stick to that. but the conditions must be right, and that means above all uniform high standards of practice. they must be taken into account. it has to be reliable, and it has to be clear what this prosecution is doing its job for. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. they welcome the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office, particularly because there is a problem in individual member states of prosecuting fraud and the waste of eu funds. is it true that if individual member states have problems in prosecuting infringements, we have to set up a new authority at european level which is not linked to any state because we have problems in individual countries? i don't see how you can welcome that. i think this is a massive infringement of the sovereign rights of a state. a prosecutor is a major interference with sovereignty.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mrs von storch, i think your question is full of ignorance about the development of the law of the state. we have, of course, state structures at european and international level. the european union is created by the sharing of sovereignty between different states. we share responsibility. the same applies, by the way, at international level. or will you deny that, for example, an international criminal court with its own prosecutor is a step backwards or an encroachment on the sovereignty of our states? no, it is a progress! that's why it's the right way to go!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into that. would you be prepared to note that the french president is merely defending european law because the treaties state that strasbourg is the seat of the european parliament? it merely refers to the current legal structure of the european union.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to reiterate that the introduction of a european public prosecutor is important! that is why we are going to do this. i would also like to see an overall approach in this overall context, not just the introduction of a public prosecutor but also the improvement of the links and structures, namely: what will happen to eurojust? what's that look like over there? then here's the deal. but what about europol and olaf? how are we going to settle this on the procedural level? it's not clear. that is why it would have been better to have followed this overall approach. it would have been particularly nice if there had been clarity throughout this whole procedure, which is of course not so easy now, as far as the council and parliament are concerned, in connection with the reform of eurojust. that is why it would have been better to have put the overall concept on the table.
member of the commission.– madam president, i welcome the opportunity to address today an issue that the media have been reporting on extensively recently: the cooperation between the german and us intelligence services. let me start by saying that many details still need to be confirmed. according to the print media, many facts remain unclear, for instance the extent to which the german intelligence service, the bnd, was involved, intentionally or not, in the us national security agency’s spying on companies in western europe, in violation of german law. the activities of intelligence services aim to ensure national security. the area is within the sole competence of the member states and thus exempt from the applicability of eu law, including the charter of fundamental rights of the european union as the charter only applies to member states where they implement eu law. having said this, the concept of national security needs to be interpreted restrictively when used by a member state in order to claim the non-applicability of eu law. the case law of the court of justice also clarifies that, in such a case, the member state needs to substantiate such a claim. it is not sufficient to simply invoke it. any problems of cooperation between the intelligence services of the member states or between a member state and the intelligence service of a third country is a matter to be resolved firstly by the member state or member states. this has to be done in compliance with relevant national legislation within the framework of the rules of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the spiegel reports this week that the nsa has apparently spied on companies and authorities in germany and the rest of western europe with the knowledge of the bnd. that's as far as a claim, a headline, a newspaper story goes, nothing more and nothing less. we have no facts on this yet. so what are we talking about here? that intelligence services are doing what they're doing, that maybe one european service is helping another friendly service do this? it is generally good that we also assure ourselves again and again that we are opposed to mass surveillance and that we do not accept the spying on citizens, politicians and companies. that's not acceptable either. but we've already established all that. that is why i do not think that the timing of this debate is right, that it is wrong, that it is too early, and i do not think that the place is right. the commissioner has just said that we are not the place for this. we should not therefore pretend to the european public that we can really change the intelligence services here in the european parliament or that we can make a difference in this matter. we do not have this competence for intelligence services, let alone a competence for a national intelligence service. we really have no confirmed findings yet. that is why this discussion is taking place in a framework in which we can only make conjectures or interpretations. because so far there has been no indication or evidence of mass or general surveillance. there is also no evidence of any surveillance within europe. as always, the focus has been on the interception of communications data from or in crisis regions. we should therefore rather be concerned with the question of how we can improve control of intelligence services.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. let me make a preliminary remark. dear mr. voss, not only have there been newspaper reports, but members of the german nsa committee, including the chairman, who comes from your party, have confirmed that there has been misconduct. but the riot following the snowden revelations has not left any trace in the member states. the snooping continues. in its final report, this parliament not only criticised the united states but also called on the member states to put an end to the unwarranted mass storage and to create stronger control bodies for intelligence services. we have already mentioned the british and german intelligence services, for example, because there was a suspicion that things were not going well. yeah, we don't have all the facts yet. the committee's members have also confirmed that this is a serious matter. anyone who passes on information without the knowledge of the chancellery and the members of parliament, and not for the purpose of fighting terrorism but for other purposes, is acting wrongly, exceeding his powers, and if nobody supposedly knew this, it is very frightening, because the control - including parliamentary control - has clearly not worked. the only correct response now is a full clarification of all allegations by the german nsa investigation committee. the chancellery must also as requested by all members provide appropriate support and ensure that the information can be provided as quickly as possible. and one of the things that's particularly important is the much-discussed selectors that our intelligence community has used to select information that the nsa wanted for different purposes. but it also shows - and this is my conclusion - that the european parliament needs to continue to deal with this issue. this is also reflected in the new legislation in france, which actually seems to take on the dimensions of a french patriot act. we must continue this discussion.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. what we always suspected, it just came out that of course all the intelligence services, including the poorer bnd, are heavily involved with the nsa, according to the principle: "a friend, a good friend". that's the point. against all law, even with the knowledge of the chancellery! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is corporate espionage! prohibited by eu law, prohibited by national law! what else? what's going to happen? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we all know the facts. i'm telling you, when we were having this heated discussion about the nsa thing, the intelligence community was sitting somewhere else, laughing their asses off. i guess that's the truth we need to talk about. it's not an isolated incident. it's not the nsa. it's the system. it's a system of surveillance of millions of citizens, of businesses, without regard to any laws. and in some contexts, that's called treason. this is the bill for the lack of control of the intelligence agencies, who can do whatever they want. and governments cover up this scandal! i ask you, how much longer are we going to put up with this? how long will this fraud continue? how long are we going to let the council do this to us? i think it's over with!
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, if these media reports are shown to be true, then this is a new dimension of this surveillance scandal which shows very clearly that it is not only the nsa or the united states, but also our own intelligence services which are not complying with our standards, our fundamental rights and our values based on the rule of law. i have to say, commissioner jourová, that now is the time to really do some work on investigating whether the term of ‘national security’ in the treaty of the european union is being overstepped by the member states. obviously this is the case. at the time of the snowdon revelation, angela merkel said ‘spying on friends, that's a no-go’. we could either say that eu member states are not seen to be friends for germany, or we could say that she does not mean her words – that she does not take her words seriously. i think that this is exactly the point for all the heads of state. we need the commission and parliament to clearly urge the member states to deliver rules and standards on how they conduct their national security work, on not spying inside the european union – the charter of fundamental rights and the treaty apply here – and to safeguard the rights and standards we have in our treaties.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. if we want to regulate the banks, the lobbyists tell us, if you do that, the business will migrate to the shadow banks. shadow banking was one of the causes of the banking crisis, and now we have the opportunity to regulate some of the money market funds. now we're told, if you do that, you'll destroy a billion-euro industry, or the business will move to the united states. but the european market is important and yes liquid enough to regulate decisively. cnavs guarantee investors every euro of their investment. but they're not as safe as cash. they're risky financial products. it is very rare that my colleague eva joly or i represent the positions of our governments. but germany and france, as well as international regulators, have called for cnavs to be buried or subject to banking regulation. neena was talking about an offer we can't refuse. this is a quote from marlon brando from the mafia movie "the godfather". i'm telling you, don't let them blackmail you. i therefore appeal in particular to the german and french members of the majority groups to support our requests.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. you did a good job. we have certainly made great strides in regulating banks, insurance companies and fund managers in recent years. but to be successful in regulation, we must also target possible evasive movements. this includes the so-called shadow banks, which are no longer allowed to move in the shadows. we therefore very much welcome the european parliament's call for the first pan-european regulation of money market funds. we are further along than the member states. we are clear that the risks of money market funds must be tackled swiftly and comprehensively. money market funds must be prepared for an unexpected investor storm, a fund run. the value and reliability of the valuation of shares is therefore of particular importance. it must be a risk-adjusted regulation. money market funds need strict transparency and liquidity rules that can ensure their resilience in stress situations. they must ensure a high quality of assets on their books and must not rely on external support. the commission will be able to take account of the need to improve the quality of the products and to make them more competitive. but for that, the regulation must now come into the starting holes. we are now ready to negotiate with the member states and will continue to work towards the objective of shining a light on the shadow banking sector.
i have to say, madam president, even if mr woolfe does not want to believe it, after the lehman collapse, money market funds worth billions of dollars were a key catalyst in the crisis. the money market funds suddenly stopped lending money to the banks for fear of further bank failures. and the money market fund investors panicked and pulled their money out of the funds. in the end, the taxpayer had to bail out money market funds and banks with gigantic sums or guarantees. so money market funds are shadow banks in the narrower sense: in terms of risks, they're similar to banks, but they're much less regulated. this is particularly true for money market funds with constant net asset value (cnav) the so-called cnav funds. we must change that! unfortunately, the special interests of the money market funds - and we have heard this again in the plenary - were over-represented at the negotiating table, which did not make it any easier for my esteemed colleague, mrs neena gill, to be a rapporteur for the european taxpayer. i would like to take this opportunity to thank her for her demanding and nerve-wracking work. the result was that less was achieved than was actually necessary. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied. the dangerous cnavs must not have a future and the problematic compromise design of lvnavs must be brought to an end after five years at the latest. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer.– i would just like to point out that lehman was an american bank, very much funded by american money market funds. i just wonder about the counterfactual: what if lehman had been a european bank funded by european money market funds?
i have to say, madam president, i think it's fair to say that cnav funds are particularly vulnerable to runs. i welcome the work done in parliament, although i am not convinced that we have reached the end of the road with the solutions. overall, of course, the reason for possible runs is not to be found in the funds as such, but in other characteristics of the underlying real economies. what we have is the phenomenon that in europe in particular there is a situation where markets have in some cases moved very far from their equilibrium, and allocations out of equilibrium are vulnerable to the existence and emergence of rapid adjustments in the area of financial relations. we have interest rates that are so low that they encourage private debt enormously. we have a situation of government over-indebtedness in various countries. all of this is something that is actually the cause of the crisis. and that's where the problems have to be solved!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a very trivial question, and we as the european parliament must help answer it. first, do we need such instruments? if so, how can we make the instruments so secure that the taxpayer does not end up paying for it? i'm just gonna put it this way. the question is, of course, whether a fund a money market fund whose inventory value is guaranteed on a permanent basis reflects market developments. that's a question that needs to be addressed. and who is responsible for ensuring that, in the event of a bank being raided, or in this case a money market fund, the money can be paid out here? we've taken an approach here to solve this little thing. i'm not happy about it either, i'll be honest. i had tabled amendments in committee which went far beyond that. i do not yet know whether we have a balanced approach to the negotiations with the council here. we need to look at two sides. not just those who offer these funds, but also those who put their money into these funds. the flexible funds are therefore certainly the easiest to manage. the question of the capital buffer therefore remains to be answered. i hope that the council will make appropriate proposals here. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the subject. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, you are asking me this question because you were anxious to have time to speak, and it has nothing to do with my speech. i specifically said that i'm not too far into the current field. maybe we'll meet somewhere.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. welcome, we're glad you're here and we appreciate it! i am today calling for the commission to be given discharge for the 2013 financial year. i can make this request in good conscience. i am also calling for support for the resolution. the main focus of my motion for a resolution and that of the committee on budgetary control is on shared management of funds and the weaknesses in the administrative systems of the member states which have existed for many years. these weaknesses are exposed in my report and remedies are proposed. i ask the groups and all members not to water down the text in tomorrow's vote and to support it, especially those on the margins of this house who claim to be acting for the taxpayer. we must strengthen the commission's supervisory function, and i have tried to do that. the commission has begun to study the figures reported to brussels by the member states in depth. the directorate-general for agriculture is a pioneer, but regional policy must follow. because there's no point in trying to whitewash the misspending. i would ask you, madam commissioner, madam vice-president, to make a greater effort to ensure that the directorate-general for agriculture, but above all the regional policy dg, receives accurate and reliable figures on management and control systems. dg regio needs to do more on the ground and not just control the audit authorities. these are longstanding demands of the european court of auditors. if the motion for a resolution is adopted, the commission will have a strong position vis-à-vis the member states in pushing for better results and better controls. so i ask you again. my great disappointment was and is once again the s&d group. it is good that the majority of the committee rejected their requests. i would ask you to do so again tomorrow in the plenary, because these motions are diluting the text and thus weakening the influence of the european parliament and the commission in the council. the importance of the report, the resolution, is clearly in the shared management of the funds. but there was only debate on two figures for external aid, and here the tindouf camp comes first. spending 40 years in the desert is terrible, and it is unacceptable that as a refugee you have to pay for relief supplies. i thought fraud was fraud, even for supposedly good causes. there is a motion by the green group and the s&d group which wants more money for tindouf and puts extra pressure on the budget. i want to tell you that the aid for newborn syrian babies had to be cut in half. at least that is what the german minister for development said. there is now an echo mission in tindouf, which is now under way. i therefore propose that we stick to the compromise text now in the resolution and that echo continue to report to our committee. i don't want to take a position on this. i'm neutral. i'm not on one side or the other. but i think it is important to continue to monitor things locally, especially for the sake of the refugees and their fate in the desert. so please, no ideologies, but argue the point. the same applies to img, the international management group, which has only been recognised as international under international law by two directorates-general. there is no decision by the college on this, although the financial regulation provides for such a course. but there is a lot of misinformation here in the house from img itself, a lot of back and forth between high and former high commission staff and img. this conflict of interest must not be left unaddressed. but today i ask you not to follow this false information. today is the first discharge debate by the new parliament. i would like to thank you, mr president of the court of auditors, and you, madam vice-president, and all the commission departments who have made a very credible effort to answer our questions throughout the procedure. thirdly, i would like to thank the cont secretariat, mrs castillo, mr ehlers and mr godts, who have given me a lot of support, and of course all the shadow rapporteurs and the advisers to the political groups.
the acting chairperson. - mr president! madam vice president of the commission, mrs georgijeva! ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, mr caldeira, president of the court of auditors! ladies and gentlemen! on 23 february, i had the honour to present to the committee on budgetary control the council's recommendations on discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the 2013 budget. on 23 march, the committee on budgetary control also decided to propose that the commission be relieved of its responsibility for the implementation of the budget. this plenary vote will take place tomorrow and i hope that it will confirm the committee's vote. i am pleased to note that the european parliament and the council are unanimous on this important issue. the european parliament included in its motion for a resolution a number of complaints about the quality of the european union's financial management. the council also noted in its recommendations that many shortcomings remained to be addressed. the council is concerned that the high level of error in a large part of the payments remains, at 4,7% in 2013. the 2% materiality threshold is exceeded in all areas except administration. the council regretted that the supervisory and control systems were still only partially effective in ensuring the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions and that the authorities of the member states of the transactions in the majority of cases had sufficient information to detect and correct these errors. at the same time, the council notes that the error rate estimated by the court of auditors does not, as such, indicate fraud, misuse or waste of european union funds. the council also welcomes all the efforts and actions taken by the commission and the member states to implement the recommendations of the court of auditors in previous years. this is all the more true given that this was done in circumstances where the volume of payments made increased significantly. in the context of limited resources, it is clear that more attention should be paid to budgetary discipline and to the efficient and effective use of european union funds. good financial management is important not only from the point of view of public opinion. we have a legal obligation to implement the budget of the european union in accordance with the rules that have been approved. all actors involved in the management of european union funds, including the member states, must assume their respective responsibilities in full. the council invites the commission and the member states to continue to improve the effectiveness of the management and control systems, while ensuring that the benefits of controls are balanced against their costs. in order to achieve full protection of the financial interests of the union, it is also of particular importance that corrective measures are implemented in a timely manner. finally, i would like to turn to the issues related to budgetary management. in this context, the council considers that clear, comprehensive and timely information on the annual payment appropriations needs to be provided. it calls on the commission to provide a credible forecast of future payment needs in both the short and long term. ladies and gentlemen! the new multiannual financial framework has just started and i am pleased that the discussions on the new programming period have focused on the need to create a results-based legal framework, both from the commission, the council and the european parliament. this is a great opportunity for all of us to achieve a more efficient and better use of eu funds. the council is of course aware that the new element cannot have an immediate positive effect. however, in our recommendations we call on the commission to report on progress in relation to achievable results in a timely and regular manner, so that this information can be used in the negotiations on the next multiannual eu budget. the council stands ready to engage constructively in all discussions on this and to further improve the content of the implementation of the eu budget. ladies and gentlemen! members of the house! thank you for your attention.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, we are here on a core accountability procedure for the european union – the discharge procedure. it started in november with the court of auditors report and it has gone through very thorough discussions. from the commission side, i want to state very clearly that we take this responsibility very seriously. we take it seriously when we build our control systems, we take it seriously when we communicate to this house when questions are addressed to us, we take it seriously at political level, with my fellow commissioners engaging this year in an exchange of views with the committee on budgetary control as well as at technical level. we take the vote of the council and the vote in the committee on budgetary control to grant discharge to the commission for the year 2013 as an encouragement. it is an encouragement to us as the commission and an encouragement to our staff. i want to thank members for that and i hope tomorrow’s vote will confirm their recommendation. for the commission, budget implementation is built on multiple blocks – setting—up of control systems, selection of projects, publication of tenders, signature of contracts, verification of payment claims and the transfer of many thousands of payments. it is part of a multi-year process and it will not finish tomorrow, even if, as i hope, the accounts for 2013 will be closed. mrs gräßle’s report, and before that the report of the court of auditors, gave us a nuanced picture. there are positive elements. the accounts of the european union were signed off for the seventh year in a row. the court concluded that eu revenue, all commitments and expenditure, were free from material error and that the previous year’s trend of an increase in the error rate had been arrested: 4.7% in 2013 versus 4.8% in 2012. but we do not take this to be the focus of our attention. the focus of our attention is where we have to do more and where we have to do better. we need to do more and better in compliance with the rules in the areas of shared management, agriculture and cohesion – we heard that from the rapporteurs – in the controls operated by national authorities in member states to detect errors early so that they can be addressed early, and we do not get to the point of interrupting payments. we, on the side of the commission, first and foremost take as our goal to protect the budget against fraud. we have discussed today mrs macovei’s report on the european public prosecutor’s office. i am co-responsible for it. it is part of a system we want to build that helps us to stop fraud and deter wrongdoing in respect of our budget. there are also a lot of things we can do to improve the way we protect our taxpayer’s money. i want to stress that in the juncker commission we are concentrated on four critical points. first, simplify the rules. make them more understandable, easy to apply and easy to control, with fewer errors. the court is very clear – simple rules mean fewer errors. this year we will pursue work that we have already started. i will present an updated administrative simplification scoreboard to show what has been achieved and what else we have to do. simplification is important for our second objective – to improve the cost effectiveness of management and control systems. we now spend between 2% and 7% of the total costs on controls. obviously, we want effective controls and we want to think of the best way to use taxpayer’s money. for this, the third element is to further improve the reliability of information, especially that which we collect from member states, to make sure that we actually apply the most important recommendation of the court which is a single audit chain: do not do multiple audits when we can actually have one. for that we have to have credible information. national declarations are important. we hope we will see more of them. fourth and last, it is of utmost importance to take into account the multiannual nature of our problems and to improve our corrective capacity. we are using this seriously. over the last five years the amount of financial corrections was on average 2.2% of all payments. in 2013 we opened 265 new interruption cases with a value of almost eur 5 billion. we are now in the new multi-year perspective, a new financial period. obviously, as the minister said, we have to focus on compliance, but equally or even more on what we get for our taxpayers’ money. in this sense, the use of the performance reserve, the leverage of our budget, how we can get more from it, the use of macroeconomic conditionality, are all building blocks of our commitment to a budget that delivers the highest possible value to our citizens. we have committed to an eu budget focused on results as part of our work programme. i look forward to the interinstitutional working group on performance budgeting that would help us all to go in this direction. i apologise for overstepping my time. i want to finish by making a sincere commitment to work with the institutions – with parliament, the council and the court of auditors – for the sake of making our citizens proud of the work we do for them.
president of the european court of auditors.– mr president, i would like to thank this parliament for this opportunity to say a few words on this particular occasion when we are starting an important debate that will close the discharge procedure for the financial year 2013. i would also like to congratulate all the rapporteurs for their reports and, in particular, the committee on budgetary control. it is very gratifying for us in the european court of auditors, and all those who work there, to see such an extensive and thorough use of the work we have done in this particular field. as the final year of the last spending period, 2013 followed the same pattern as previous years. the accounts of the european union for that year are reliable – and vice-president georgieva has underlined this clearly. however, too many payments – although correctly recorded and accounted for – should not have been made because they did not meet the conditions for payment. this is an area where we need to work, because there is room for improvement along the european union accountability chain from those that are responsible at the first level for ensuring that there are indeed cost-effective systems in place. more could be done by the member state authorities that are responsible for this primary management and controls, mainly because there is information already available to make sure that payments fully comply with the rules. the european commission can also further improve its reporting at the eu level on the estimated errors, financial corrections and recoveries. these are two elements where we think we can do better. but, as has been emphasised previously, the pressing need is to improve the information on the results we achieve. this is a symptomatic, underlying problem of the european union budgetary system. we need to pay more attention to the results achieved with the funds available from the european union. that is the single key message i would like to emphasise again today from our annual report. this is particularly important as we are now starting a new financial framework period. we have new systems in place for the 2014 to 2020 period. this is again an opportunity to put these things right from the beginning and to strengthen the eu accountability chain. in this context, we should welcome the plans already disclosed by the european commission to foster a performance culture in the eu’s financial management. that culture needs to be based, in our view, on a genuine commitment by the financial management at all levels to achieve results. it also requires there to be clear targets and effective incentives for achieving them. finally, we note that this house has taken heed, in the report on the discharge, of all our warnings and recommendations on a number of issues, not least regarding the need for adequate transparency and accountability arrangements for financial instruments, namely those designed to fund investment. this is also an issue we have raised in our recent opinion on the ‘juncker plan’. the eu cannot afford for the achievement of results to be an afterthought. it should be the focus of eu spending. as a court, we look forward to continuing to work closely with your institution, this parliament, to help ensure that best use is made of european union funds to deliver results for citizens.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the council has already taken a decision on the matter. i am speaking as a development politician on a matter of humanitarian aid. it concerns the tindouf refugee camp in algeria. i am afraid that if this report is followed, the humanitarian aid to tindouf will be significantly reduced. the committee on budgetary control refers to an incident in 2003 which was resolved in 2007. and year after year we are now being checked to see whether the measures we have taken as the commission are also correct. the number of beneficiaries in tindouf is known. this has been confirmed by the scientific service. i am afraid that the debate between two countries - algeria and morocco - will lead to a lack of humanitarian aid for the refugees in tindouf. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of amendment no 27 tomorrow.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the commission recalls that the commission did not provide any information on the level of the injury suffered by the union industry during the period considered. nevertheless, we found that 29% of all operations examined in the fields of external relations, external assistance and enlargement were flawed, mainly due to procedural irregularities, non-eligible expenditure and non-performance. we believe that the commission should take the court of auditors' observations on the subject of preferential trade agreements very seriously. the commission still lacks an adequate overall economic impact assessment. we support the recommendation of the court of auditors to address deficiencies in ex ante and ex post evaluations and weaknesses in customs controls. the member states are of course also at the forefront of this in their original responsibility. it's got to get better. we also believe that it is necessary to monitor all sme support activities in third markets and to identify ways of improving cooperation between the various actors, including in the sense of sound budgetary policy.
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the committee on economic and monetary affairs has of course dealt in particular with the three supervisory authorities - banking supervision, securities supervision and insurance supervision. we welcome the work of these supervisory structures in principle, because they were urgently needed to help achieve a uniform application of the rules in the european union and to bring together the fragmented financial market in europe. on the other hand, we are already criticizing the fact that all three supervisory authorities go far beyond what they were mandated to do by the legislator within the framework of directives. we therefore ask that the three supervisory authorities here stick to what they have been mandated to do by the legislator - that is, the european parliament and the council of ministers. i think it's in all of our best interests to do this. we would therefore be glad if the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy could support these remarks in the plenary tomorrow.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not the committee on agriculture has for the first time taken part in the discharge procedure in an opinion which i have written, because the committee on agriculture cannot and does not want to ignore the report of the court of auditors, which has direct implications for our political work. three short remarks. firstly, i continue to advocate a uniform system of error rates between the commission and the court of auditors, because the error rates identified differ considerably from one another and cause overall political confusion. secondly, the increased error rate, which i fear is the case with the new common agricultural policy, often reflects a policy which is too bureaucratic. we have two kinds of mistakes now. some are user-related, others are done virtually in the system. thirdly, i was very surprised by the unreliability of information coming from the member states. as the commission had to correct the error rate in 43 out of 67 cases in 2013.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i've changed my seat here briefly, on the commission. thank you, inge gräßle, for this very valuable report, which addresses the right points. as a former rapporteur, i am particularly pleased that the commission is now taking on more responsibility directly in the member states through the structural funds controls. the commission is also serious about repaying funds, see france and agriculture. but structural and agricultural spending remain our chief concerns. the commission must be clearer about the data it uses in the member states and it must be more involved in those countries which are in trouble, but not in all countries with stricter rules. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but to really make a difference, we need more transparency. we have now requested some reports on staff development, on staff expenditure, with a deadline. but the costs of our flagship projects - the house of history and the lux prize - are also better valued. we must rethink the efficiency of the financing and keep it under review. the citizens expect this of us, and we owe it to our political mandate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the eu budget has been implemented to a large extent in accordance with the european court of auditors' findings. we in the group of the european people's party would like to thank all the staff of the european union, and of course the european court of auditors in particular, for its audit. in addition to regularity, we consider it essential that the eu budget is used only for essential tasks and that it is used economically and sparingly. the commission has already done so. this is not always the case. we still have, or increasingly do, tasks in the eu that we are aware of. the eu should not have to take this into account, but the member states can do so as well. for example, the more than 40 agencies. we ask ourselves: does all this have to be at the eu? is it economically viable for us to have agencies in addition to a commission? for example, the institute for gender equality. we therefore urge you to consider whether this institution is even necessary. we do not think so.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, the alde group would like to thank the european court of auditors. it is crucial for us to detect misuse of funds and to look into the administration. we would like to say in summary: the central demand of the alde group in the past - namely better budgetary control - has been taken up by the commission and implemented with the member states. reservations and corrections have been applied to make better use of the funds, after all 80% of the eu budget is used by the member states. we encourage the commission to continue along this path, because the error rate in some areas - such as regional and structural policy and also agricultural policy - is still too high. the court's reports show that action is needed here, above all in the member states. i shall therefore address the council representatives on the spot. there are reports from the court of auditors which show that the procurement procedure in particular is too complicated. and that is what the applicants tell us, the members. the application process is very difficult for many - especially voluntary ngos. we in the alde group therefore call for efforts to simplify the budget so that the bureaucratic effort can be reduced. better use of resources must be the top priority on the eu agenda. better budgetary control also requires a change in our budget to a result-oriented budget. we are waiting for you to make good on your promise and to make concrete proposals. we want the member states to take the lead, to introduce flat rates and thresholds. simplifying administration is the best way to reduce the error rate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the good news for the commission is that discharge can be given for the implementation of the 2013 budget of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds, despite the still too high error rate in project implementation identified by the court of auditors and some doubts as to whether the intended development objectives have actually been achieved in the beneficiary countries. the budgetary aid instrument in particular should be reviewed more closely in the future and not be used on the scale it has been used so far. however, the european development fund is still managed as a special asset of the european union, while the other external financing instruments are already integrated into the eu's general budget. the european year for development 2015, the negotiations on the replacement of the millennium development goals by the sustainable development goals at un level, the forthcoming start of negotiations on the future of the cotonou agreement beyond 2020 and the new multiannual financial framework should be an opportunity for us to strive for greater rigour and coherence in the development policy of the european union and its member states. i also think that this includes the integration of the european development fund into the general eu budget for democratic control of budget preparation and better transparency of budget implementation.
president of the european court of auditors.– mr president, allow me to make just a few points to close this debate on behalf of the european court of auditors. my first point would be to send thanks to those in the court who have contributed to your scrutiny on the european union budget, its agencies and institutions. critically, improvement on the european union budget is a challenge that we have had, but it is a challenge that has to be put forward by the commission and by the member state authorities that are responsible. but all the institutions have to work together in that sense. for our part, in the court of auditors we believe that we also need to put more emphasis on performance issues in our annual report. we also plan to devote relatively more of our resources to giving this house high-quality, timely and relevant special reports on those performance methods that matter the most for the european union and its citizens. finally, while taking care of the recommendations addressed to the court of auditors in its own discharge, let me assure you that we will continue to work closely with you to make the excellent cooperation between our institutions a driver to achieve the results that we are all calling for this afternoon. i think this is what matters the most for the european union’s citizens.
vice-president of the commission.– mr president, many thanks to the members of the parliament who have taken part in this debate but also to many who have contributed in the work leading to the debate tonight. we are grateful for your contributions and, as we have done with the report of the court of auditors, we will study very carefully the recommendations in this report once it is voted tomorrow and make every effort to implement them. because in the end, what matters is to turn the debate into actions of the commission, of member states, that lead to improvements in the way we spend our taxpayers’ money. i would like to close with three points. first: learning from experience. this has been mentioned by many and it is an obligation of the commission and, of course, in the shared management programmes of our partners in the member states. learning from good experience and learning from bad experience. we would very much like to continue in that spirit: to identify what works and cherish it. success breeds success. learn from what does not work and then correct it – fix it. my second point is on the question of methodology. we are now at a crucial moment of time when we are making a leap into balancing measures taken on compliance with measures taken on performance – the culture of results that we have discussed. it is not a trivial matter and it is not easy. measuring performance in some areas – for example, school attendance – is easy. measuring the impact of investment in smes on jobs, then growth of the economy, is not difficult. measuring how rural roads contribute to inclusion of rural populations in the economy – the national and european economy – is more difficult. there is always a risk that when we shift to performance, we focus our money on what is easy to measure rather than on what matters the most for our people and our economies. this is why i would very warmly welcome an engagement with the court of auditors, parliament, the member states and the council on working on performance. i am stressing this because, if we do right, it would enormously benefit our economies. if we do not do it right – shame on us. so let us work together on making sure we have the right methodologies and make this learning experience a shared journey. my third and last point concerns those who have spoken on the benefits european money brings. they are enormous. i was in latvia a couple of days ago and there, the chair of the parliamentary committee for european affairs told me how in latvia you would no longer recognise the schools they inherited from the previous era. they are modern schools, they are energy efficient, they are a pleasure for kids to go to – 800 of them with european money. latvia is much better connected because now it has a modern airport that allows much more traffic. in the city she grew up in you would not recognise the streets and rural areas because agricultural investments have made farms much more modern and made the city a much better place to live. i have the same experience in my own country. when we talk about the european budget: yes 4.7% is subject to errors and a fraction of this is subject to fraud. but 95.3% has delivered, and it is our job to make the delivery of our budget as strong as we can make it. what you have done is very clear and professional, as has been the work of the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs. we are grateful for the effort you have made. i am taking this back to my colleagues in the commission with this very simple, straightforward commitment: make better use of our taxpayers’ money.
the acting chairperson. ladies and gentlemen, thanks again for giving me your name. these debates showed that many of the issues concern us equally. i can also conclude that our common objective is to reach the court's opinion without comment. and without further ado, there is still much to be done to improve this performance. let me emphasise again that in this context all financial actors must take full responsibility for the fulfilment of their obligations. in response to the comments on the council's dismissal and the roles of the council and parliament in the dismissal process, i would like to stress that the council fully respects and fulfils the tasks set out in article 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the council is aware that the committee on budgetary control voted to postpone the council's discharge for 2013, but remains ready to discuss the relevant working mechanism between the european parliament and the council. the council made a specific proposal for a memorandum of understanding in 2011 and noted with interest the european parliament's call for modus vivendi in its resolution of 23 october 2014. on the other hand, as regards errors, as president grässle pointed out on 23 february when opening the committee meeting (and i represent a country with one of the lowest error rates - latvia has an error rate of 1%), i would also fully agree with the concerns of those members who consider that the percentage of errors is high, and would also point out that the council regrets to acknowledge this fact. this is why the council in its recommendations emphasises the role of preventive and corrective measures and the need to further strengthen them. i would add here, as many speakers have said, that this is the previous planning period. the council expects that the new control requirements and the reinforced procedures introduced for the 2014-2020 programming period will allow for a significant reduction in the error rate. in conclusion, i would like to reiterate that the budget of the european union is an important tool for achieving the policy objectives we have agreed. we need results, in terms of growth, jobs and investment, stronger businesses and a more competitive europe. we also agree that in a situation where our collective resources are limited, we cannot afford to spend one euro inappropriately. we need to send a clear message to european citizens and taxpayers that the european union's actions are constantly monitored and that their quality is being improved to achieve all the results we want. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, thank you again for your time and for your attention.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! thank you for the clear and lucid words at the end. we'll take your word for it. i just want to say how grateful we are that you came. the council presidency has not always taken on this task, and you have also made it quite clear that we can count on you. we'll be counting on you and your successor. this is a very strong signal from the latvian presidency. i would like to say to mrs kadenbach and to all those who have spoken on the subject of tindouf that no one is calling for a reduction in aid to tindouf under the heading. we demand that there should be a census, a head count. if you look at the unhcr reports, it is there that the lack of this count is criticized. we demand that we give aid to people who are actually there, and we would like to know exactly how many there are. no one is thinking about it - and this is a malicious distortion of what is in the report - no one is thinking about cutting aid. but we don't think about expanding aid until we know. and we cannot have refugees in dire circumstances there having to pay for eu aid because they have been robbed of it in the past. this very "in the past" is what is being reproached. we have had an exchange with commissioner georgieva about how this is today. that is why there is an echo mission there. we want to make sure that's not the case today. i believe that this is the greatest service we can render to the refugees. and i really want to ask you to reject amendment no 27. this amendment is not helpful in this matter. he's not helping! that is why i think we are not doing ourselves any favors if we simply discuss these things in a very frivolous and also twisted way. i want to tell you that we're coming back to our main problem of shared management. we really need credible procedures of management and control systems and credible data. i would ask the commission to take seriously the reservations we are voicing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european added value must be examined in the measures and the focus must be on results. we shall continue to call for this in the years to come.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i have only been sitting in this parliament for ten months now and i must say that i am already fed up. i am fed up with talking about youth unemployment and not seeing any action. i am fed up with member states not taking their responsibilities seriously. i am fed up saying the same thing over and over again. maybe it is just me, maybe i am just overly impatient. but i know too many stories about young people in europe not to be patient. for christ’s sake, it is the middle of 2015. good morning member states of europe, wake up! you have slept far too long. the 30% pre-financing that is now proposed by the commission for the youth employment initiative is the final wake-up call. we have pushed forward this proposal in this parliament in a very speedy procedure because we all agree that the time to act is now. now we need to see the member states do the same: use the money and make it reach the young people in europe, because this is their political responsibility. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i completely agree with you that we welcome this proposal a lot and that we have worked in this parliament to push it through as fast as possible, but now it is really the responsibility of the member states to act, because they are the ones who have the responsibility to put this money towards young people and make sure it goes into programmes and is used in a way that is useful in the fight against youth unemployment.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. unfortunately, we have no reason to celebrate a great success today. we are still light years away from the goal of combating youth unemployment in europe. however, with this initiative, finally, movement is coming into an infinite story. i would like to thank all those who have been involved in getting this started quickly. because there's been too much talk in the last few years, too many black peters being pushed around, but the results are not good. we social democrats have pointed out from the outset that the fight against youth unemployment cannot be achieved by radical austerity but that we must assume a common european responsibility. it did not take any foresight to foresee that, particularly in the member states under austerity, assistance was needed in pre-financing and co-financing and that, at the same time, all of us had to support meaningful structural reforms. the fight against youth unemployment must remain our top priority. you have said it, commissioner, not just in the member states, in the european institutions, but everywhere on the ground. now it is up to local governments and businesses to take action in this area in the interests of the younger generation. she needs perspective, and we have to do everything we can to get it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 29 april. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr gérard deprez, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2016 specific programme i parliament (2015/2012 ((bud)) (a8-0144/2015).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too would like to begin by thanking mr deprez for his work. it has been stressed many times, but i think it cannot be stressed enough: we are living in a time of a serious financial and economic crisis. the 505 million people in the eu are told every day that governments must save. in this context, the budget of the european parliament has a role to play. i am glad that the increase in expenditure was limited to 1.6%. at the same time, we must work to reduce this limit where possible. we need to prioritize right. this is particularly the case for me in the field of information technology. we must also set an example here, because without it we would not be able to work. i mean, we have to make sure that we don't get into any trouble here. on the other hand, it was also said that more had to be done to ensure the safety of buildings. i warn you, we're funding placebo effects that look good, but don't add to the safety.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 29 april.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the adequate protection of whistleblowers and journalists in the fight against tax evasion and avoidance (2015/2677 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i agree with the commission: yes, we have special rules for this in competition law and in other areas. it is also agreed that it is up to the member states to find the rules now. but let's be honest, all of us here. does anyone in this room really believe that the member states are doing this all by themselves? that they find balanced regulations that resolve the tension between the legitimate interest of companies in secrecy, in relation to the state, and the legitimate interest of the public to get information about things that are socially unacceptable, about state-organized tax avoidance? in this area of tension, it is impossible to find a balanced solution, and to leave it to the member states alone. i would therefore ask the commission to be courageous here. they must create a common understanding across europe of exactly when disclosure of secrets, even against existing internal or national obligations, is of such a societal relevance and dimension that in a balance of goodness the breach of these confidentiality obligations is not sanctioned because of the clear predominance of such a public interest. i expect such a proposal from you! not in the sense that you can develop a legal binding, no! but as the guardian of the treaties, as the institution we have created ourselves, to see that the consensus in europe is maintained on what we have set ourselves as law and what we may want to develop as law, it is necessary that the commission at least make bold proposals here. i want to encourage you to do so!
maybe we can clarify this later.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the gue/ngl, the left group, has requested this item on the agenda, and i thank the members for allowing us to be here in this social circle tonight. journalist edouard perrin is the third person to be charged in luxembourg for his revelations about luxleaks. we owe it to him and whistleblowers like antoine deltour to form the special committee on tax pre-decisions. we respect the independence of the judiciary, but we also respect the freedom of the press. the commission has not yet received any information on the alleged violation of the right to freedom of expression and information by luxembourg. the eu commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of trade secrets is designed to reduce this protection even further. taxpayers lose over 1 trillion euros a year through tax evasion and avoidance, europe is reduced to depression while the decent ones are the stupid ones. tax evasion is not a trade secret. what european citizen can invoke his trade secrets at the tax office? whistleblowers must therefore be protected by law if they can be expected to protect a higher public interest by their disclosures. the commission is headed by mr juncker, who was responsible for the laws in luxembourg. i expect the european commission to condemn the persecution of journalists in luxembourg, as it does in other parts of the world, and to finally come forward with proposals that protect the decent people and not the criminals in europe.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly be discussing this morning the dramatic refugee disaster ten days ago, in which 800 people are thought to have died. the report by mr tusk to the european council will deal mainly with this disaster on the world's deadliest frontier. i believe that our debate today will be one of great seriousness. we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact - i said this on monday when we opened this house - that we are being challenged in a way that has certainly not been the case for years. the ten-point plan presented by the commission will certainly play a part in our debates today. we must be clear about two things above all: we certainly need to increase humanitarian aid. people in distress need help. i don't think there should be any discussion about this. this must be done in a spirit of solidarity and fairness. we also need to combat the traffickers effectively. i'm clear on one thing, and i hope we're all clear on that: the debate today is not the solution to our problems, but it will reveal a whole series of our problems. we should therefore regard the debate here in the european parliament as one in the chamber which has been putting forward proposals for the solution of the refugee problem for many years. i would ask the council and the commission to take the european parliament's proposals seriously and to act. i have a number of motions for resolutions. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to actually come forward to the rules of procedure and tell me which rule of procedure you wish to refer to.
thank you very much, mr. leichtfried. i read that, too. i asked mr orbán's office for a telephone call this morning. i'll let you know how the conversation turns out.
thank you very much, mrs vergiat. i had already referred to the executions and made a protest at the opening of the plenary session on monday. we shall proceed, when your group makes this request, as we always do in the ordinary course of business.
ladies and gentlemen, we have this morning in the gallery the delegation from the japanese parliament, led by mr kosaka, a member of the senate, and mr ishihara, a member of the house of representatives, who is the deputy head of the delegation for relations with our parliament and who is leading the delegation from japan. the guests are in the grandstand. i welcome them to our family. (applause from the centre) the european parliament has been invited to the 35th interparliamentary meeting between the european parliament and the japanese parliament. it should be noted here that the first delegation for interparliamentary relations ever set up in this parliament was the delegation for relations with the japanese parliament. so it is a very solemn meeting in the truest sense of the word. we welcome you to our home.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the report on the extraordinary european council meeting (23 april 2015) recent tragedies in the mediterranean and eu migration and asylum policy (2015/2660 ((rsp)). i welcome president tusk and give him the floor. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
president of the european council.– mr president, last thursday i called a special european council to mobilise the european union, its member states and its institutions in response to the dramatic situation in the central mediterranean. we met four days after 800 people were lost at sea, and as you know these were not the only casualties in the last weeks. leaders were unanimous on the need to act concretely and rapidly. a challenge in the south is not only a challenge for southern europe, but for the whole of europe. and we have no illusions; we are facing a difficult summer ahead. saving the lives of innocent people remains the priority. but this does not just include rescuing people at sea. it is also in the short term – and maybe most importantly – about stopping the smugglers from putting thousands more lives at risk. it is about helping and engaging the migrants’ home countries, the countries that they journey through and those member states that face the greatest migratory pressure. finally, we must step up our combined efforts to help people who need political asylum. leaders agreed action in four main areas. firstly, we will confront the smugglers and traffickers. the people-smugglers in north africa and elsewhere are cynical, callous and often violent. they take the life savings of the desperate and leave them to drown in the sea. worse, they deliberately place vessels in dangerous situations. leaders have asked the high representative to propose actions, including a possible common security and defence policy (csdp) operation, to identify, capture and destroy the smugglers’ vessels before they are used. we need to act in accordance with international law, and there are many aspects still to be worked out. member states will also step up cooperation against smuggling networks by working through europol and by deploying immigration officers to third countries. secondly, we agreed to triple the financial resources available to our border operations in the mediterranean – triton and poseidon – and to massively strengthen their operational capability. during the european council, more than 20 leaders pledged significant support, including helicopters and surveillance planes, experts, patrol boats and naval vessels. in fact, all leaders expressed their readiness to help. this means that our operations will carry out their mandates faster and better and save more lives. the best way to protect people from drowning is to ensure that they do not get on the boats in the first place. almost none of the migrants are libyans. therefore, we will help the countries around libya – tunisia, egypt, sudan, mali and niger among others – to monitor and control the land borders and travel routes. that means building on current csdp operations in the region to help improve border management. it also means working more intensely within existing regional frameworks and with african partners on issues like development aid, anti-trafficking and refugee protection. prime minister muscat has kindly offered to host a joint summit in malta between the european union and the key countries concerned. the final element was the need to do more on refugee protection. we all know that this is a difficult and sensitive debate. still, we made some progress. this includes the full and effective implementation of the common european asylum system to ensure the same standards in all member states, an increase of emergency aid to front-line member states and the deployment of support teams to help process asylum claims. leaders also agreed to set up a first voluntary pilot project on resettlement across the eu and to look at mechanisms for emergency relocation within the union. leaders had no illusions last week that the current situation can be solved without stability and a working administration in libya. we have a neighbour on our border without law and order, or a government with which to work. as long as that is the case, we must continue to respond to the situation and alleviate suffering wherever possible. the commission, the council and the high representative are finalising a roadmap that sets out precise actions, an exact timetable and clear responsibility for what leaders agreed last week. on this basis, leaders will come back to the issue in june to assess progress.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, the european council's response to the human tragedy we have just witnessed in the mediterranean was immediate, but it remains insufficient. (applause) i am pleased that the proposal i made on behalf of the commission to triple the budget allocated to the triton mission, despite some initial hesitation, has been followed up by the members of the council. we are correcting upwards the budgetary resources allocated to the triton mission, bringing them to an amount of 120 million euro. this is exactly the amount allocated to the mare nostrum mission. so we're making up for lost ground. it was a grave mistake to have ended the mare nostrum mission. it cost lives. (applause) i would like to thank italy alone has financed the mare nostrum mission. from now on, the triton mission will be financed by the european budget and by the national contributions of all. it is, in fact, a return to normalcy. it was not right that the funding of the mare nostrum mission should be left to italy alone. (applause) i sometimes read, although it is not true - and this is the reason why this information is constantly repeated - that the mandate of the triton mission is limited to rescue operations in the territorial waters of the member states concerned. that's not true, man. the mandate of the mission is otherwise much broader. i'll spare you the details, but we don't have to expand and change the mandate of the current mission. tomorrow, if that is the wish of all - it is already being done in some places and on occasion - triton will be able to intervene in international waters, which is only normal. we do not have to extend the mandate, but we must provide the mission with the means it needs to be able to intervene on the high seas. i said that the european council's response was immediate but not sufficient. i am saying that the conclusions we reached at the extraordinary council are still below the level of ambition that we should have had. let me explain. it is not enough to fight the symptoms of the crisis. as mr tusk said, it is essential to do everything possible to prevent unhappy people from being forced to go to sea. we must save lives on the ground instead of watching helplessly as lives are self-destructed in the mediterranean. the member states must increase their development aid at all costs. it's the most important thing. (applause) it will be necessary for the european council - as the president-in-office of the council has just indicated - to return to the issues which fuelled our debate last thursday. i will be advocating, with the commissioner responsible, mr avramopoulos, the introduction of a quota system. i had proposed at the last council that we should have indicated our collective will to agree on a geographical distribution of refugees throughout europe. we'll have to do it. (applause) i would like to thank the management of the transfer of refugees cannot be left to the member states directly concerned. it's about shared solidarity. actually, i'm tired of the poems. i like the rhetoric of the beginning, but not the rhetoric of the end. mr president, we must act and we will be proposing on 13 may a system of distribution throughout the european union. (applause) i would like to thank solidarity must be shared. we urgently need to deal with the issues surrounding the notion of legal immigration. if we do not open even half the front door, we should not be surprised when the poor of the whole planet break in through the window. we have to open the doors to avoid it! (applause) we cannot say, "we cannot accept all the misery in the world", to quote one of your colleagues, the former french socialist prime minister, and at the same time say that we should not deal with legal immigration. legal immigration is part of the medium-term solution and therefore something must be done about it! (applause) i also know, mr president, that many people, including some sections of public opinion and public opinion itself, are calling for us to act quickly and actually demanding from the european union that everything we are doing now should be done from the heart. we must also know that in six months' time public opinion will again be moving in a different direction. i would like to see all those who agree with us now, for legal migration to plead for a quota system that would extend over all europe, to bring it into line, and to stand by its present wording, when public opinion will have been reversed. (beifall) everyone knows that the european continent is not the only and only starting point for the fight against poverty and hunger in the world. but we must as the richest continent our part to contribute, dass menschen, die von der not getrieben sich in boote setzen, nicht vor unserem küsten ertrinken. but we must as the richest continent our part to contribute, dass menschen, die von der not getrieben sich in boote setzen, nicht vor unserem küsten ertrinken. but we must as the richest continent our part to contribute, dass menschen, die von der not getrieben sich in boote setzen, nicht vor unserem küsten ertrinken. this is our common task! (beifall)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we were in italy with the epp group last week, we held a meeting there, and an italian colleague told us about his experience in one of the refugee camps. he pointed out that he had met a family there who had started in eritrea with five children and had arrived in italy with one child. he described the empty eyes he was staring into when he was having this conversation. last year, an estimated 3 500 people died in the mediterranean, and this year, 1 600. tragedy moves us all, and it motivates us now to move forward. i thank the president-in-office for taking the initiative to bring the chiefs together. the results, particularly in the financing of rescue at sea and also in the fight against the smuggling organisations, are good, they are steps in the right direction. i believe that we must now continue to work on this with ambition, as the president of the commission has said. the epp is also working on the question of burden-sharing in europe. we have a situation where only a few states are currently bearing the burden. that will be a subject which the commission will propose. and in a fair and equitable distribution of the burden, the commission has our support. secondly, we have to see in the development that we have to do even more to stabilize africa - particularly africa. i would like to emphasize that we europeans should not only be self-critical but also proud of certain points. for example, the european commission has spent a lot of european money in somalia in recent years, and has launched an african stabilisation initiative there, which has led to somalia being stable today and to a significantly lower number of refugees coming from somalia. we have successes too, and we need to talk about them too. but i would also like to make one wish in the debate on africa: if we now look towards the mediterranean and keep on saying to each other what europe still has to do where europe is failing, then we as european politicians can be self-critical - no question - but we can also say very clearly: the main failures are not in europe, they are in africa. there we have states and politicians who are corrupt and do not give their people a perspective. and you have to be honest about it. we have two points on which we have contentious discussions. everyone agrees that we need to take in syrian refugees, that we need to take in civil war refugees. unfortunately, two thirds of all applicants who entered european soil last year were rejected after a rule of law process and were unable to prove their refugee status. mr president of the commission, that is why we need to have a discussion on safe third countries. who can we quickly deport back to their country if there is no refugee claim? the european commission must also negotiate with african states on the issue of development aid and say: we are happy to give you money for your development, but then please take back your citizens who have no reason to flee. if we fail to return the rejected, we will lose the support of the citizens for the right of asylum in the long term. that is a great concern that we have. we must therefore be clear: two thirds of the applicants must also be returned. i would like to mention another critical point, namely the question of legal migration. we agree that if we do better on the blue card, if we do better on the individual initiatives we have in europe, we will all be better off. we can do better. we can take a european approach. but whoever says that if we open the doors to legal immigration in the labour markets, then we will end the misery in the mediterranean, is deceiving himself and the people. what odds are we talking about? are we talking about 100,000, 500,000, over a million africans that we're going to let in? if we talk about quotas, millions of africans will still be eager to look to europe for hope and to try the mediterranean route. legal immigration is not going to solve the problem. and if you shake your head, you may also refer to the debate within europe about the fact that one in five young people on this continent is unemployed. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this is a discussion that must be conducted honestly. we believe there are ways to improve here - no question - but we don't think opening legal pathways to europe en masse is the solution to illegal migration. europe is faced with a great challenge. i think that the discussions that we're going to have over the next few weeks about this will also make it clear that there's not just one approach, but there's also partisan debates, there's also directional debates about how to deal with this. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. and we must answer that humanity with a resounding yes. the deaths in the mediterranean must be stopped. (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i too would like to say first that in my opinion the question of whether hungary is asking its citizens has little to do with how we deal with the issue here. that is why you should make national policy in the national parliament. i would like to say very clearly that the left is constantly calling for the involvement of the citizens. now a head of government makes this involvement, then you are not right again, obviously only because the wrong questions are being asked. in the great question that viktor orbán has raised at the moment, i am not referring to press articles, but i will do the same as the president of parliament, i will first seek to talk to viktor orbán. the epp will then also have a critical debate on critical issues, which sometimes arise. but i ask you to see that when citizens are questioned, it should be in the interest of all of us.
mr faria, member of the commission. i thought you were showing me a bird. why don't you tell me what makes you want to insult me?
mr faria, member of the commission. please sit down. this is not the way. i said at the beginning of this debate that we have thousands of word messages here and i take one for each blue card received. you weren't the first to report here. that's why. that doesn't give you the right to insult me here!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, we should try to be serious about each other and not give the wrong impression. first, the problem of 50 million refugees on the move cannot be solved by a simple wave of the hand. we should not give the impression that we can find all the solutions for 50 million refugees here in a short time with a few measures. we have to do something. what does 'contribute' mean? it means, firstly, that we must, of course, launch search and rescue operations to save people in the mediterranean. but nobody here talks about the sahara zone, where at least as many people die. and just because we don't see them, the dead are there anyway. secondly, there must be a policy for africa that is implemented. we have had an africa policy since 2007, so they say. in fact, we have 28 or 29 development aid policies which do not work in concert with the african continent. the european union is not alone in this responsibility. african states also have a responsibility to their citizens. thirdly, we must finally fight human traffickers! i cannot understand why, every time we discuss the fight against human trafficking, the gue/ngl always takes a critical view of the measures and why we do not engage in a serious international fight against the most brutal criminals who kill, torture and murder for their own benefit. these are terrorists, these are organized criminals, and we have to deal with them. and then there's the third way, which we have to talk about seriously with each other. this is the subject of so-called legal migration. you have to actually separate labour migration and the issue of refugees and humanitarian migration. we have tools like resettlement, we need to expand them. this means that we do not need endless new instruments, but we must use the ones we have. we can also add other instruments if we do it in a sorted and meaningful way. but it's always just a contribution to the disaster. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs hohlmeier, i have an interesting question for you since you have referred to the smuggling system what do you think is the reason why smugglers have such a possibility of transporting many refugees to europe in this way? do you see europeans as being complicit in the fact that such a smuggling monster was able to sustain the economy in the first place?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i do not believe that the european union and its member states bear responsibility for the trafficking of human beings on the african continent. i believe that disasters, civil wars, wars, conflicts - whether ethnic, religious or political - drive people to flee, and that trafficking gangs exploit people's desperation for their own financial gain and to spread their criminal machinations.
madam president, last week the heads of state of the european union met and were faced with the question of what to do in order to stop the dying in the mediterranean. mr tusk has explained what the priorities of the heads of state are: fighting smugglers with the military and, secondly, stopping refugees even from reaching european shores. is that really the answer of the european union, winner of the nobel peace prize: drowning in the mediterranean? you cannot be serious. where is the humanitarian rescue mission that we need? italy started it, but the other member states refused and even said that it helps smugglers. where are the safe and legal access points for refugees? these are people in dire need of international protection. where are the real answers from the heads of state? i think what was decided at the council was a disgrace. it was unfortunately a waste of time. even though it was good that you sat together, nothing came out of it. by the way, colleagues from the epp, president juncker was your candidate. he is your commission president and you should listen to him more often.
i have to say, madam president, yes, we cannot take in all those who want to come to europe. but it is also true that we could take in more people if all member states were to become more involved in refugee policy, as well as in labour migration. it was precisely after the recent refugee tragedy off the coast of libya that it was time to introduce a turning point in european refugee and migration policy. the council has not given this signal. it is not disputed that we must combat the causes of flight in the countries of origin and we must combat criminal smugglers. but it is also true that the higher the fences we build, the more dangerous the route to europe, the more likely it is that escape will become a business for smugglers, precisely because there are no legal routes to europe. given the wars raging across europe in some countries, it is shameful that there are still member states that do not take in a single refugee under the resettlement programme. this can't go on. we need a good distribution of refugees among all member states and we need to make greater use of the measures already in place to take in refugees. and legal migration, labour migration, must also be improved, because in many member states we already need additional labour, not just in the academic professions but far beyond. for all these reasons, it is now time for member states to take concrete action. i can only ask you to recognize the signs of the times and stop talking. ( the president agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, as provided for in rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think i can make it really short. it would be wrong in the current situation to point the finger at just one state, because the responsibility for what happens to refugees lies with all the states in europe and around it. that is why i will not answer a question which concerns only one country.
i have to say, madam president, i'm actually wondering what we're doing here and what's happening here, sprinkling a little symbolic salt on a wound that won't heal anyway. and then we'll get to the agenda, and we'll talk about refugee defense. a handful of ministers have taken a decision - the so-called 10 points - at the green table. they have not asked any parliament in the world, any parliament in europe, not the european parliament. they've passed people, refugee organizations, migrants. and the protests after the abolition of mare nostrum did not interest them either, neither mr juncker nor mr tusk. it wasn't until 1,200 people died in the mediterranean that they came to their senses. now they seek their salvation by blaming the smugglers. the problem of trafficking is only a brutal consequence of your policies, mr tusk and mr juncker. they're the ones to blame. so are all the others who are involved, who are silent, who look away, who can't see the dead, who won't look the families of the victims in the eye. what we are asking for is respect for families, legal passage to europe, massive aid for countries, for third countries, which are hosting millions of people. no more, no less than that.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is an important step taken by the european council to finally move in the direction of putting human lives above all else. so, with everything else we're talking about, we have to say that there can be no balance here. lives have to be saved. the second point is that we must also remember that some say that in the sahara, on the way to sub-saharan africa and black africa, at least as many people die as in the mediterranean. this issue should also be included. this shows that we can only move forward with a holistic approach, that development policy and foreign policy are part of it, that the failed state in libya needs to be included, that responsible government action in black african countries. we also need to make clear what dictators like the one in eritrea are doing to their own people and how we can help them to improve the problems. we need to make it clear that these traffickers are being dealt with. i do not understand it: our intelligence services are investigating everything, but they cannot identify these trafficking gangs so that we can take action against them and eliminate those who are bringing these people to their doom. we'll have to see. we need to be clear about the rules here, too. i am in favour of a quota system so that it can be distributed so that no one can withdraw, so that populists do not have a chance to distribute wrong numbers and so that no one can hide. i hate it when we hear comments, woman in the field. hungary is the country that received the most asylum seekers in 2014, after sweden. the netherlands and ireland are not among the top ten. here some people who do nothing at home, make lawsuits against others. let's be honest with each other. that is why i would like to see a quota system, so that no one can hide in this way and show off to others.
the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the reality of the situation. this means that everyone knows - must know - that there is an urgent need for action. there are no easy answers to difficult questions, but we must ask the questions that go like this: how do we rescue the refugees? how should the registration be carried out in all member states? priorities for a quota rule? what should a uniform immigration law look like and what should a coordinated african policy look like to combat the causes in a sustainable way? we need more europe, not less!
in writing. in the face of the terrible disasters that occur daily in the mediterranean, we have a responsibility towards people who have to flee to europe. the council and the commission have tried to get out of the situation with the 10-point plan presented, without really offering protection and help to the people. the heads of state and government are sticking to their policy of closure, instead of finally creating legal and safe routes to europe. we could make great progress here by calling for a european resettlement programme, and it is more than regrettable that our cdu/csu colleagues are refusing to accept this programme. at least we succeeded in calling for a mandatory distribution key in our resolution in order to make a fundamental correction in european refugee policy. we have a large majority for this, and i call on the member states to recognize this majority and to act.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i just wanted to make one more general remark. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, if our laws are becoming more and more bureaucratic, if our laws are becoming more and more difficult for the administrative bodies to understand when they are being implemented - let alone for the users - we should become thoughtful and make sure that they are generally understandable and easy to use when we adopt them. we should make sure that we are not a little bit partly responsible for higher error rates.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section iii commission and executive agencies, because i am not a fan of the agencyitis that is rampant in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the eu's agency must be brought to an end. that is why i am opposed to budgetary relief for the agencies as a matter of principle. no one can consistently prove their 'european added value'. agencies are usually directorates that have been spun off from the eu commission and are being transformed into a legally independent authority. it's not going to save us anything. agencies are usually created as a result of the compromise-cow-trade between heads of state and government in the brussels bazaar. you just have to find a problem to somehow establish an agency. once established, they are unable to be dismantled because governments secure their rights. there are now more than 40 agencies in four categories: decentralised agencies, executive agencies, euratom agencies and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the biggest irony of 'agenuritis' is that the outsourced authorities are often so far away from the eu commission's headquarters that efficient cooperation and control in day-to-day business is not possible. so the agencies are opening their own liaison offices in brussels. the commission's proposals for savings will then disappear. however, as a supporter of a lean eu administration, i cannot agree to the discharge of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i abstained today in the votes on the amendment of regulation (eu) no 1304/2013 on the european social fund as regards an increase in the first advance for operational programmes supported by the youth employment initiative. i believe that the creation of sustainable jobs for young people in europe is urgently needed, but at the same time i am convinced that this cannot be guaranteed by state measures, and even less by european measures.
in writing. ‒ i have never heard anyone talk about the causes of the dramatic rise in unemployment in the last few years in southern europe and france, either in strasbourg or brussels, or on ard and zdf, except the representatives of our party. if i have to go to the doctor, i expect him to make a history and a diagnosis before recommending therapy and prescribing a prescription. instead of tackling the root cause of the misery caused by the austerity policy of the single euro, brussels is prescribing white ointment. money has never been able to buy jobs. i was one of only 30 members of congress who voted against this placebo. i would rather continue to work for the health of patients in the euro area than make them sicker with the wrong treatment. the only way to recover is to have a policy whereby a currency meets the needs of a country, rather than subordinating it to the needs of a currency.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of repealing council regulation (eec) no 3030/93 on the common system of importation of certain textile products from third countries, because i welcome the approach taken by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i have today agreed to the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on safeguard measures provided for in the agreement between the european economic community and the kingdom of norway, because i am concerned about good cooperation with the kingdom of norway.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the stabilisation and association agreement between the ec and albania because i believe that good economic and regional cooperation is important in the context of the neighbourhood policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the application of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement on trade and trade-related matters between the ec and bosnia and herzegovina, because i consider it important to have good economic and regional cooperation in the context of the neighbourhood policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, because i welcome close cooperation with the republic of macedonia and its accession to the eu.
in writing. ‒ the eu's agency must be brought to an end. that is why i am opposed to budgetary relief for the agencies as a matter of principle. no one can consistently prove their 'european added value'. agencies are usually directorates that have been spun off from the eu commission and are being transformed into a legally independent authority. it's not going to save us anything. agencies are usually created as a result of the compromise-cow-trade between heads of state and government in the brussels bazaar. you just have to find a problem to somehow establish an agency. once established, they are unable to be dismantled because governments secure their rights. there are now more than 40 agencies in four categories: decentralised agencies, executive agencies, euratom agencies and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the biggest irony of 'agenuritis' is that the outsourced authorities are often so far away from the eu commission's headquarters that efficient cooperation and control in day-to-day business is not possible. so the agencies are opening their own liaison offices in brussels. the commission's proposals for savings will then disappear. however, as a supporter of a lean eu administration, i cannot agree to the discharge of the agency.
in writing. ‒ the eu's agency must be brought to an end. that is why i am opposed to budgetary relief for the agencies as a matter of principle. no one can consistently prove their 'european added value'. agencies are usually directorates that have been spun off from the eu commission and are being transformed into a legally independent authority. it's not going to save us anything. agencies are usually created as a result of the compromise-cow-trade between heads of state and government in the brussels bazaar. you just have to find a problem to somehow establish an agency. once established, they are unable to be dismantled because governments secure their rights. there are now more than 40 agencies in four categories: decentralised agencies, executive agencies, euratom agencies and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the biggest irony of 'agenuritis' is that the outsourced authorities are often so far away from the eu commission's headquarters that efficient cooperation and control in day-to-day business is not possible. so the agencies are opening their own liaison offices in brussels. the commission's proposals for savings will then disappear. however, as a supporter of a lean eu administration, i cannot agree to the discharge of the agency.
in writing. ‒ the eu's agency must be brought to an end. that is why i am opposed to budgetary relief for the agencies as a matter of principle. no one can consistently prove their 'european added value'. agencies are usually directorates that have been spun off from the eu commission and are being transformed into a legally independent authority. it's not going to save us anything. agencies are usually created as a result of the compromise-cow-trade between heads of state and government in the brussels bazaar. you just have to find a problem to somehow establish an agency. once established, they are unable to be dismantled because governments secure their rights. there are now more than 40 agencies in four categories: decentralised agencies, executive agencies, euratom agencies and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the biggest irony of 'agenuritis' is that the outsourced authorities are often so far away from the eu commission's headquarters that efficient cooperation and control in day-to-day business is not possible. so the agencies are opening their own liaison offices in brussels. the commission's proposals for savings will then disappear. however, as a supporter of a lean eu administration, i cannot agree to the discharge of the agency.
in writing. ‒ the eu's agency must be brought to an end. that is why i am opposed to budgetary relief for the agencies as a matter of principle. including the european police academy. no one can consistently prove their 'european added value'. agencies are usually directorates that have been spun off from the eu commission and are being transformed into a legally independent authority. it's not going to save us anything. agencies are usually created as a result of the compromise-cow-trade between heads of state and government in the brussels bazaar. you just have to find a problem to somehow establish an agency. once established, they are unable to be dismantled because governments secure their rights. there are now more than 40 agencies in four categories: decentralised agencies, executive agencies, euratom agencies and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the biggest irony of 'agenuritis' is that the outsourced authorities are often so far away from the eu commission's headquarters that efficient cooperation and control in day-to-day business is not possible. so the agencies are opening their own liaison offices in brussels. the commission's proposals for savings will then disappear. however, as a supporter of a lean eu administration, i cannot agree to the discharge of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree to the 2013 discharge: european banking authority (eba) . this is the line of my group, the european conservatives and reformists. i am against the continuing provision of eu funds to these agencies.
in writing. ‒ the european institute for gender equality is backward, eats taxpayers' money and must be abolished. that is why i am voting against the discharge. the political mandate of the eige is the political control of individual and societal norms and values by eu officials without democratic legitimacy. their task is to play an active part in the "gender equality" process. gender mainstreaming aims to eliminate the fundamental differences between men and women through policy decisions in all areas. what the eige is deliberately failing to do for ideological reasons is to develop gender-specific policies for mothers and women who are advocates for the family at home, and who are disadvantaged by unfair tax systems and lack of formal recognition in the social system. this would be a tangible added value of "feminist future research". but this is not what the eu institutions want politically. that is the real scandal.
in writing. ‒ in the vote on the discharge 2013: european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), i refused to grant discharge. i am opposed, in line with the line of my group, the european conservatives and reformists, to the continued provision of eu funds to these agencies.
in writing. ‒ the eu's agency must be brought to an end. that is why i am opposed to budgetary relief for the agencies as a matter of principle. the european medicines agency is also involved. no one can consistently prove their 'european added value'. in addition, for 50 years, the council of europe has had a european pharmacopoeia (edqm) which is binding on all eu member states. so why waste money on a double structure? agencies are usually directorates that have been spun off from the eu commission and are being transformed into a legally independent authority. it's not going to save us anything. agencies are usually created as a result of the compromise-cow-trade between heads of state and government in the brussels bazaar. you just have to find a problem to somehow establish an agency. once established, they are unable to be dismantled because governments secure their rights. there are now more than 40 agencies in four categories: decentralised agencies, executive agencies, euratom agencies and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the biggest irony of 'agenuritis' is that the outsourced authorities are often so far away from the eu commission's headquarters that efficient cooperation and control in day-to-day business is not possible. so the agencies are opening their own liaison offices in brussels. the commission's proposals for savings will then disappear. however, as a supporter of a lean eu administration, i cannot agree to the discharge of the agency.
in writing. ‒ i refused the discharge 2013: european securities and markets authority (esma) in line with the line of my group, the european conservatives and reformists. i am against the continuing provision of eu funds to these agencies.
in writing. ‒ the eu's agency must be brought to an end. that is why i am opposed to budgetary relief for the agencies as a matter of principle. no one can consistently prove their 'european added value'. agencies are usually directorates that have been spun off from the eu commission and are being transformed into a legally independent authority. it's not going to save us anything. agencies are usually created as a result of the compromise-cow-trade between heads of state and government in the brussels bazaar. you just have to find a problem to somehow establish an agency. once established, they are unable to be dismantled because governments secure their rights. there are now more than 40 agencies in four categories: decentralised agencies, executive agencies, euratom agencies and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the biggest irony of 'agenuritis' is that the outsourced authorities are often so far away from the eu commission's headquarters that efficient cooperation and control in day-to-day business is not possible. so the agencies are opening their own liaison offices in brussels. the commission's proposals for savings will then disappear. however, as a supporter of a lean eu administration, i cannot agree to the discharge of the agency.
in writing. ‒ the eu's agency must be brought to an end. that is why i am opposed to budgetary relief for the agencies as a matter of principle. no one can consistently prove their 'european added value', not even the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. agencies are usually directorates that have been spun off from the eu commission and are being transformed into a legally independent authority. it's not going to save us anything. agencies are usually created as a result of the compromise-cow-trade between heads of state and government in the brussels bazaar. you just have to find a problem to somehow establish an agency. once established, they are unable to be dismantled because governments secure their rights. there are now more than 40 agencies in four categories: decentralised agencies, executive agencies, euratom agencies and the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). the biggest irony of 'agenuritis' is that the outsourced authorities are often so far away from the eu commission's headquarters that efficient cooperation and control in day-to-day business is not possible. so the agencies are opening their own liaison offices in brussels. the commission's proposals for savings will then disappear. however, as a supporter of a lean eu administration, i cannot agree to the discharge of the agency.
in writing. ‒ the fundamental rights agency must be abolished. that's why i didn't agree to the discharge. the fundamental rights agency is a toothless tiger: it is supposed to check possible violations of eu laws against fundamental rights, but it deliberately lacks the necessary competences. for this, it receives eur 20 million in basic equipment per year. however, the eu treaty gives the ecj jurisdiction to assess violations of fundamental rights. and the council of europe, founded in 1949, has its "venice commission", where international law experts draw up scientific expertise on human rights issues. in the face of a legitimate lack of legal capacity, the fundamental rights agency increasingly became an uncontrollable actor in the political control of individual and societal values and norms. the officials are very selective in their approach, because the importance of the violations of fundamental rights, which are politically analyzed, does not correspond to the reality of life, but follows the influence of the "fundamental rights lobbyists", who in turn are entertained by the eu commission with taxpayers' money. parliamentary control is not possible and not really wanted. what is the added value of such an institution whose main task is to manipulate public opinion? the continuing criticism of the fundamental rights agency by the cdu and csu is hypocritical: both parties have strongly supported the eu fundamental rights strategy and the creation of the eu fundamental rights agency in the ep.
in writing. - i change my final vote from in favour to against.
in writing. ‒ today we are voting on the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on money market funds. investments in money market funds serve the purpose of short-term cash management as they provide a high level of liquidity, diversification and value stability for the capital invested at market-based returns. money market funds are thus an important interface between demand for short-term money and supply. in particular, the proposed regulation follows a view of the financial stability board that funds with a constant net asset value (cnav) are subject to the special risk of 'run-off' and therefore need to be regulated significantly more strictly. in germany, such funds are rather unusual. i am against regulation, though. the regulation of cnavs is so strict that they are becoming less attractive as an investment. the circle of permitted investments is being narrowed. this means that money market funds concentrate on fewer investment options, which increases the likelihood of a 'run' in an asset class. the limitation of the borrowing allowed also limits the possibilities of reacting to a 'run'. both are counterproductive to the stability of the asset class of money market funds. the regulation will ensure that a higher proportion of short-term investments will be placed in bank accounts and will flow into the banking system in the future. i can't shake the feeling that this is a desirable side effect.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament cannot afford to do otherwise. every opportunity to turn the diversity of the 28 countries into the simplicity of the 'united states of europe' is eagerly seized. the commission's proposal to set up a european public prosecutor's office is supported by parliament, although the principle of subsidiarity is upheld at all other occasions. our group, the european conservatives and reformists (ecr), voted against. where there is no state, there can be no prosecutor.
in writing. ‒ i opposed the creation of a european public prosecutor's office, even though the union has now acquired this competence by the treaty of lisbon. however, the eu is not a state - nor should it be in the future. so she doesn't need her own attorney. the member states have jurisdiction to prosecute. there is no reason to see this differently for individual offences - even if these offences have a background in european law, such as subsidy fraud in relation to aid. the introduction of a european public prosecutor's office will only lead to a fragmentation of powers. it is also a gateway to an extension of the eu's powers in the field of law enforcement. but this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
i have another announcement to make. in agreement with the groups, i propose that the house amend its agenda for tomorrow, thursday, by putting on the agenda tomorrow afternoon, as the first item, an extraordinary debate on the death penalty in indonesia - without a resolution. the statement will be followed by a round of speeches by the political groups. the vote on the urgency motions will take place at 4.30 p.m. (parliament adopted the resolution) (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 1 p.m.)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in burundi (2015/2678 ((rsp)).
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, i welcome the opportunity to have this urgency debate. through previous resolutions and the actions of honourable members, this house has reminded burundians that they have allies in their efforts to achieve sustainable democracy, to take their country from fragility to democracy and to maintain a path of respect for human rights, development and regional integration. unfortunately burundi is at a critical moment where the considerable achievements of recent years are at risk. the decision of the ruling party to nominate president nkurunziza as presidential candidate has promoted a serious division across society and across politics. this must be addressed immediately. the eu has already articulated, for example in the march conclusions of the foreign affairs council, the importance we attach to the arusha accords on which peace and stability were built in burundi after years of civil war. we stated that those demanding that arusha be respected, especially on the third mandate issue, should not be ignored. this remains our position. it is not too late to take the path of reconciliation and dialogue. vice-president/high representative mogherini and i are appalled at reports of police violence and mass arrests, including those of human rights defenders, journalists and other civil society activists well known to this house. last year many of you fought hard to secure the release of pierre claver mbonimpa of the human rights group, the association for the protection of human rights and detained persons (aprodh). we were naturally concerned at reports that he had been mistreated and again arrested without justification. i am very glad that he has been released and i congratulate those who worked on his behalf. but others were detained or harassed in similar circumstances and we must follow their cases extremely closely. intimidation and harassment of human rights defenders, the media, the political opposition and other critical voices must end. i present my sincere condolences to the families of those who have died and to those who have been injured in recent disturbances. i deplore the restrictions on freedom of the media and assembly which prevent burundians from understanding what is happening around them and from expressing themselves, particularly in the delicate moments before the start of an electoral campaign. this can only encourage rumours and promote frustration and heightened tensions on the streets. it is vital that all actors promote calm and avoid provocation. at the same time the burundian authorities should respect the right to demonstrate peacefully and avoid excessive force. i would like to say a word now on the presidential and legislative elections in burundi. successful elections should be our first goal. as you know, the european union has not only given financial support to the elections but is sending an electoral observation mission. these important contributions show our commitment to making the elections a success, but i would like to remind you of a key element in the recent statement by vice president/high representative mogherini’s spokesperson, namely that intimidation and violence, death and injuries, arrests of human rights defenders, restrictions on the media and floods of refugees have no place in an electoral process. i also want to remind you of a crucial point that was formally stressed to the burundian authorities by vice-president/high representative mogherini in her letter of 13 april, mirroring the eu foreign affairs council conclusions on burundi of march, that the presence of the electoral observation mission must be reflected in fair access to the political space for all political actors. that is a fundamental condition of our support and clearly an element to be closely monitored in these difficult circumstances. we cannot, however, see the elections in isolation from our overall partnership. the cotonou agreement is absolutely clear on the need to respect human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law as essential elements. in addition, there can be no impunity for those individually responsible for human rights abuses. we will take the steps needed to ensure they account for their actions. the challenge now for the european union and other international partners of burundi is to maintain a productive dialogue, encouraging the authorities to seek consensus built on discussion across the political spectrum and civil society. depending on developments, we are looking at all the options available to us. we are currently reviewing with our member states the consequences of the current situation and possible remedial action available under the cotonou agreement. we will of course keep parliament informed of this work. with this in mind, i would like to underline that the eu heads of mission have in the last few months been conducting a regular intensified political dialogue, as provided for in article 8 of the cotonou agreement, with the burundian authorities. however, when talking about possible measures, i want to emphasise one point. the european union is one of burundi’s major development partners, and our support is crucial in providing this country with a better chance of dragging itself out of a position of structural fragility and extreme poverty which severely affects large segments of its population. it is with this objective in mind that our 11th european development fund (edf) national allocation to burundi was doubled, as compared to the previous edf, to an amount of eur 432 million. in reviewing our next steps, we need to focus on finding solutions and promoting positive changes which will allow burundians to continue to fulfil their expectations. we must not hurt the poor and vulnerable, and we should make every effort to allow relations to be fully normalised as quickly as possible. as the commissioner for development, i need to balance our duty to citizens with the need for a prudent approach, especially if state resources are being used to enact repressive measures. i very much look forward to hearing the views of the honourable members.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. we have spoken this morning in this house about refugees seeking refuge in europe, and there have been voices saying that we must not only deal with the symptoms of the movements of refugees, but we must also deal with the causes which lie in the countries of origin, which have been abandoned by the people. it is therefore right and important that we should address today the situation in burundi, where for several days now the police, the army and rival political groups have been violently fighting each other. the deaths are already mourned and tens of thousands of people are fleeing, including to neighbouring countries, so that the conflicts in burundi are no longer confined to burundi. after decades of civil war and hundreds of thousands of deaths and refugees, the country was about to face a democratic test: parliamentary elections in may and presidential elections in june. president nkurunziza, the incumbent, is the author of the present situation, by announcing that he is running unconstitutionally for a third term. the international community and the european union are called upon to do everything possible to put pressure on the burundian authorities to prevent a new humanitarian catastrophe in the country. the eu should also - and the commissioner has confirmed this - show with its election observation mission that we are not indifferent to further political developments in this african country.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the commissioner has rightly described the situation in burundi, pointed out the problems and also pointed out the fragile situation. the human rights situation - and i assume from what you have said that you too are very critical of the opposition there - is a very unspeakable one at the moment. so i have a few very specific questions for you. firstly, you have mentioned the need to set up an electoral observation commission. what will it be composed of? will it be a high-level group? i think that is very important to send a message to this government. secondly, what measures is the eu taking to ensure good coordination with all international election observation missions and to support burundian civil society in monitoring the electoral process? is it planned to involve civil society in this process? does the european union intend to freeze budgetary aid to burundi in the event of the re-election of the incumbent president? i think it is important to discuss this and to make it public, because we have an instrument here to influence this president too, not just with words but with deeds. if you are not going to freeze it, how are you going to make sure that the funds are used for the purpose and also for the benefit of the people and not for any other use by the government? i refer to article 96 of the cotonou agreement, which would make it possible to suspend relations between burundi and the eu.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the persecution of christians worldwide and its relation to the murder of students in kenya by the terrorist group al-shabaab (2015/2661 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the attacks that have taken place in kenya are really to be criticised in the strongest possible terms. it is always a matter of concern that people have to suffer, that certain groups have to build up their power and strengthen their power. that's exactly what these attacks were about. the islamic militia al-shabaab has not shied away from these attacks in an attempt to destabilize northern kenya with a religious instrument. we know that al-shabaab is targeting christians in kenya for this very reason. but we also know that in somalia itself they are not afraid to kill children, women, students and schoolgirls muslim groups . so this is where religion is being instrumentalized, and that's exactly what we shouldn't allow. in this resolution we want to focus on kenya. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. it is particularly unstable in the north of the country. the kenyan authorities are not very sensitive and sympathetic to muslim minorities. this is fuelling criticism and exacerbating the situation there. that's where al-shabaab is trying to gain power. we must prevent this as a european union.
i shall say this for the last time in this debate: if you only get one minute from your group, you are not helped by speaking as quickly as a machine gun, because it is impossible to interpret. so please, stick to your core messages if you have very little time allocated, or talk to your groups to get more.
colleague, the blue-card procedure is there to ask a question of the speaker, not to give a correction to a misperception of his speech. so if you want to answer whatever question you could discern from that, you are welcome to do so.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. over 300 works of art have already been destroyed in iraq and syria. it fills me with a sense of helplessness, but also anger. it's wanton and aggressive destruction. we must make it clear: it is a war crime and a crime against humanity. it is directed against the identity of individuals, but also against groups and entire peoples, and it is a massive violation. we consider this a cultural cleansing. it is directed against the appreciation of the world cultural heritage which is so important to us and to unesco. that is why i condemn this barbaric act in the strongest terms. unesco is currently fighting for the recognition of the world cultural heritage and for its promotion, and that is why we must uphold this claim - also against the terrorists in the countries concerned, syria and iraq. but we have a second big problem. the trade in cultural goods from iraq and syria has been mentioned by almost all the previous speakers. this trade in the european union is supporting the terrorism of isis and other terrorist organisations, and that is why it is so urgent that we dry up this trade. i therefore expect the commission to ensure that this is the case. we have to work with interpol, we have to work with other international cultural organizations to have all the information we need. the member states must work together with the eu to stop this illegal trade in cultural goods.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in the territory of the caliphate declared by the radical islamic group is/da'esh and by other in syria and iraq, numerous cultural monuments have been destroyed by the terrorist militia for some time. religious fanatics wantonly destroy anything that is commonly regarded as a manifestation of respect for outstanding human achievements in the fields of intellect and culture. the destruction by is/daesh is a direct attack. the rich heritage of arab culture and also the culture of christian origin in these countries is simply no longer guaranteed. there seems to be no place for these cultures in these regions. the destruction of this cultural heritage is an attack on the cultural heritage of all humanity and must be decisively opposed. the european parliament condemns in the strongest terms this destruction, looting and desecration of precious archaeological sites, historic buildings, religious shrines and cultural heritage, which has been described by unesco as 'cultural cleansing'. the illegal trade in cultural goods stemming from these looting must be stopped as soon as possible, as it is a major source of funding for terrorism. we therefore call on the high representative to take more appropriate political measures to end the illegal trade and thus prevent the financing of the terrorist militia from trade. we call on the european union and the member states to establish appropriate security mechanisms and to act together to combat these crimes.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in its opinion on albania's application for membership, the european commission identified 12 key reform priorities that the country must implement before the copenhagen criteria for accession are sufficiently met to be negotiated. today, five of these 12 reform priorities are still on the agenda. these are the most important reforms, and they are the most difficult, and they cannot be implemented overnight. they require strong political will, a long breath and active support from all the actors in government, political parties and society: reform of public administration and the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime and the strengthening of the protection of all human rights, including the rights of minorities. the albanian government has recognised the challenge and has launched numerous reform initiatives which now need to be successfully implemented. what matters is not just to tick off a list of eu tasks, what matters is that all the inhabitants of the country feel the positive changes in their daily lives, in education and health, when visiting authorities or in court. the albanian people should realise that with each successful reform, their country is moving closer to eu membership. my report therefore encourages albania to pursue the reforms it has begun with great ambition and to tackle the reforms still to be undertaken with great commitment. let me conclude with a final remark: in my report i expressly commend albania for its contribution to security and stability in the region and for its cooperation with neighbouring countries. the visit of prime minister rama to his serbian counterpart vučić was a significant one. the resulting action, including youth exchanges and other activities, is an important contribution to better understanding of each other. this contribution is manifested in many ways. that is why i regret that there are not very helpful interviews which point in the wrong direction. but let us be clear: in a report like this, that is not the case!
madam president, as we have heard tonight, albania will need to meet the key priorities for the opening of accession negotiations. these are, among others, to reform the public administration, to reinforce the judiciary and to fight against corruption and organised crime. let me underline just one other priority: regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations also form an essential part of albania’s process of moving towards the european union. i believe albania pursues a constructive and proactive approach in regional and bilateral cooperation. as the standing rapporteur for serbia i would like to comment on the political will of both albania and serbia to improve their bilateral relations. the meeting between prime minister rama and prime minister vučić in november last year was an essential step forward to renew and improve relations between tirana and belgrade. it was the first meeting between the prime ministers of both countries for 68 years. bearing all this in mind, i would like albania to stay on its path towards the european union and would encourage the country to take even bigger steps in the near future. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you, mr vajgl. it is not only serbia which has a rapporteur from germany, but albania also has a rapporteur from germany, knut fleckenstein, and his good work has already been praised in this debate. i would just like to quote what mr fleckenstein said in his speech, namely that these remarks are not acceptable but that this is not an issue in the debate on this progress report tonight. i think we all made it clear in the last meeting of the committee on foreign affairs that, across partisan lines, we were all of the same opinion that these remarks were not helpful and should not be repeated.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, are you aware that there are greek people working in the albanian parliament? i think what you said here is grossly exaggerated.
the commission has already done so. the thessaloniki pledge of 2003 applies: membership for all the countries of the western balkans. i would like to thank mr preda for his report on bosnia and herzegovina, which contains important suggestions on how this can be achieved. we have to see that no country has a harder time achieving this goal than this country, because it obviously has the most complicated system of government in the world. i had a lot of discussions with my friend richard holbrooke many years ago about this, that this state constitution was enough to end a civil war, but maybe not enough to win the future together, and that this is one of our core problems and that therefore it requires a special responsibility on the part of the political actors there. the european union must be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the process of transformation is based on the rule of law, on corruption and on cooperation within a federal system in which the central government also has the power to act through conciliation and in which there is no complete coexistence, and in which croats cannot even play a part. i think it is important to make it clear that there is a responsibility here and that for this reason it must be stated that any of these party political institutions, these ethnic institutions that fight for themselves there, will be losers. there will be no winner in the country, not the people, not the political actors, if we do not agree on a reform concept that brings the country closer to the european union. so the question is not what we do, it's in their own hands what they do. we are prepared to provide the necessary assistance. i would therefore like to recall once again a phrase which mrs mogherini said in the country's parliament: 'look at your neighbours in the region. everyone is moving forward and it is time for bosnia and herzegovina to move forward too.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and, above all, for the words he has just said. i would like to remind you once again: bosnia's economy is in tatters. we have very high unemployment, a trade deficit, social unrest, violent riots. if bosnia and herzegovina does accept this amendment, which the commission is now trying to push through, it means that within a certain quota - as my predecessor has already said - the whole of the eu will have access to the market of bosnia and herzegovina. the market is not yet ready for this. we talked about the changes that need to be made. they're on the line, they need a certain amount of time. we don't have that time right now. that is why the proposal to suspend the agreement is blackmail. it's not an incentive, as they say here. it's a blackmail, you know. please take account of the weak economic situation in bosnia and herzegovina and act in accordance with the eu's high ethical standards.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. before we talk about what we want to achieve again, we should consider what we have not achieved. of the eight millennium development goals, four are no longer achievable, including the oecd pledge to devote 0.7% of their gni to development cooperation. this is also a significantly under-achieved objective. in the early 1990's, people in east germany carried signs that read: if the d-mark does not come to me, i will go to it. we are now seeing something similar with the migrants and refugees who are pouring into europe, and they are hundreds of thousands, because they lack the means of subsistence in their home countries. if we do not now fulfil our promise and help people in the poorest countries to live on fair terms - and that includes economic and trade relations - then no sea will be too deep and no fence too high to prevent them from coming to europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since the eu member states committed themselves in 2005 to a total of 0.7% of their gross national product for official development assistance, little has happened. unfortunately, even a rich country like germany, with 0.4%, is not one of the four member states which have taken their commitment of 0.7% seriously. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the refugees, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to help the refugees. it is not possible that we mourn the deaths of refugees on one side of the mediterranean and do little to improve the living conditions of their countries of origin on the other side. in the medium and long term, we should aim to have the richest countries in the world, including many european countries, spend 1% of their gross national product on development cooperation. in the context of the european year of development, member states should finally fulfil their commitment to at least 0.7%.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in recent months, various legal services of the european institutions, including the council, have been working on the legal issues in depth. among other things, there was the legal view that the eu clearly has exclusive competence for the ratification of the marrakesh treaty. it was also noted that no new european legal basis was needed to move forward with the implementation of the marrakesh treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also really important to remember that the negotiation of the marrakesh treaty was anything but easy and some countries had to be dragged to the negotiating table. will the council now present a concrete timetable for ratifying the marrakesh treaty? will he also encourage governments such as the german federal government to find a real compromise on this question?
i have to say, madam president, the report on the european investment bank does not ask the crucial questions. the report on the european investment bank laments an investment gap in the euro area. but he doesn't ask, "why do we have this gap?" he doesn't ask, "why is this gap so unevenly distributed?" why do we find, for example, that there is no problem with investment in germany, while there is a large investment gap in the southern european countries? he does not ask: why is there no demand for european products? it does not ask the question: why is the competitiveness of individual european countries so low that their products are not in demand? it does not raise the question of the common currency, which prevents states from becoming competitive, which cannot be competitive under the present circumstances, under the unit exchange rate. the european investment bank report does not address the causes of the crisis. it is a blind faith in the euro that blinds it to reality. this is the cardinal error of european economic policy today. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm sorry, the problem in europe is not that we save too much, but that we borrow too much. germany has a current account surplus, as you rightly pointed out, because german products are competitive. germany shows that demand is not something that has to be generated by government programmes, by juncker packages and similar things, but that demand can be generated by exports. the question is: why can't the other european countries export to the same extent? why aren't they as competitive? mr president, you must answer these questions.
i have to say, madam president, the eib's support for member states in economic difficulties is effective and well thought out. unlike mr lucke, who has already left the chamber, i would say: yes, mr hoyer, you are promoting growth and competitiveness, you are promoting investment in full accordance with the europe 2020 strategy. the eur 9 billion 50% more than originally planned for the european youth initiative has been particularly successful. we do not want to leave people unemployed or without prospects. the programme 'qualifications and employment - investing in youth' will be supported. vocational training, mobility of students to facilitate integration into the labour market. the eib's main focus is on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of our common european economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there is a fall in investment across europe, but we have to make sure that this investment can be made. i see a need for improvement in the allocation of funds. the application and administration should be simplified. i am sure you will do your part. and more flexibility is needed. but one thing is also clear: even increased european funding cannot replace action in the member states, both active economic policies and necessary structural reforms. mr hoyer, thank you very much. keep it up!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european investment bank is to be transferred to the so-called juncker plan. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. you are completely forgetting that we are constantly increasing the state quota in europe. we are talking about directed investment. we're talking about good and bad investments, which you're bragging about. they think they know what investments are good in europe. we are quite used to this on the left of parliament, and i am not at all surprised. but when so-called conservatives and especially so-called liberals tell us what the government should invest in, it is a clear sign that the eib is part of a statist drive in europe and that this house is full of statist people. and i say to you: all this talk of investment is the downfall of the european economy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are the world, we are the children. we are the world, we are the children. we are the ones who make the day shine. let's start the delivery! it's our choice. we're making the day better! you and me. let us stand together as one! we can't pretend every day that somebody is going to somehow change something. does that sound weird? but it is. and not from me, but from michael jackson. singing for africa. today we are talking about the eu's appearance at the milan expo and the theme 'feeding the planet, energy for life'. this is a subject of particular interest to me as the coordinator of the ecr for the acp delegation. i ask myself and you, commissioner: we are not going to be able to do that. we are not fooling ourselves by pretending that european agricultural production can satisfy the hunger in africa? do we have concepts that allow partners on equal footing in world food, that allow for advances to enable production and processing in emerging countries? do we have internal market rules in europe that protect natural diversity? keyword: seeds? are we doing our part to actively promote this diversity? i want to say with michael jackson: let's do it! any change can only come if we stand together as one, in europe and in the world! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i don't think that's normal, you know? i'll give you an example. in uganda, the cows could be milked, the milk could be packaged in tetra-packs, flown to germany, for example, and put on the shelves, and it would still be cheaper than the milk we offer here at home if we didn't subsidize it. we're going to destroy the world market and pretend we're not involved in the food problem. i think that we europeans have a responsibility.
chairman of the envi committee. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we would like to ask on behalf of the committee to postpone the final vote on the legislative resolution and try to reach an agreement with the council in the trilogue. i ask for your consent to suspend the vote.
in writing. ‒ alcohol production is an important part of european culture, it supports millions of jobs in europe and it has a great economic value. on the other hand, we must take into account the negative effects of excessive alcohol consumption and not ignore the consequences. the positive thing is that we are addressing the problem of alcohol abuse at european level. we can learn from each other in europe to combat alcohol abuse effectively. but i also agree with those who say that much of what we can and must do is primarily a matter for the member states and that the principle of subsidiarity must be applied. as an epp member, i also see some areas of improvement. i do not think we need a uniform minimum age throughout europe. this should be left to the member states, as there are different experiences and models in the treatment of alcoholic beverages such as wine, beer and spirits in different countries. i think that the resolution should not make any reference to minimum prices either.
in writing. ‒ some groups wanted to ban alcohol from the age of 16 and to increase taxes. i think that is wrong and i voted against it. i am of the opinion that we must raise awareness in europe of the dangers of alcohol abuse. alcohol consumption while driving, and even during pregnancy, is a major problem in our society. but a meaningful education must not be reduced to blind actionism. the eu must not give people the impression that it is constantly trying to regulate all aspects of life. the demands for a general ban on alcohol under 18 and measures against cheap alcoholic beverages are inappropriate and do not solve the problem. experience shows that tax increases fuel the black market and often have the opposite effect. in germany, we have seen this with the alcopops. since the special tax was introduced, young people have avoided alcopops, but they are now mixing their own drinks. this ultimately leads to higher alcohol consumption. the minimum age for consumption is also set at 18. studies show that enjoying a glass of beer or wine in the evening can be quite beneficial to health. the key is to be aware of how you use it. however, alcohol consumption patterns across the eu are so different that a one-size-fits-all approach to alcohol misuse prevention does not make sense.
in writing. ‒ today's agenda included a vote on the european commission's alcohol strategy. i sat back and used my 'common sense' to ask myself: what does brussels have to do with all this? why is it that the diverse drinking culture - i must admit, i find it a bit difficult in this context - is regulated and laws are harmonised in europe? in normandy, my family's second home, you like to sizzle a cider and sip a calvados behind the barrel. otherwise, the french enjoy their wine, the belgians their beer. the poles love their vodka, the italians their martini, calvinists more like nothing at all. everyone knows that alcohol can affect your health. the commission has also taken the view that young people need to be particularly protected from this. but for god's sake, let this be a matter for each country and its parliament! if we keep this up, we'll soon be all swedes when it comes to alcohol. i do not want that, at least not in the case of the paternalistic interference of the state in the drinking habits of the people and the horrendous taxes on alcohol. no wonder that many of the drunken corpses you see on the reeperbahn at night, sleeping off their intoxication, have swedish or finnish passports. i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ parliament has adopted a new eu alcohol strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i therefore did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the alcohol strategy (2015/2543 (rsp)). alcohol is a recreational drug whose prevalence varies from one member state to another. the eu is not concerned with how member states position themselves in this respect. the principle of subsidiarity is thus violated. it is all too comical that the resolution should point out that the consumption of alcohol creates 'health inequalities'. it is true that alcohol and its use cause individual risks. each one should judge for himself. the consumer of commodities is not the cog in the gearbox of the brussels bureaucratic mill.
in writing. ‒ the negotiations on this resolution condemning the persecution of christians in kenya showed how much of the christian world actually exists in the european parliament: little. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is a major player in the world economy. the eu does not recognise its own christian roots. however, respect for its christian foundation is crucial to europe's identity and unity. the consequence of this institutional denial of identity is relativism. it is already in force in the european parliament. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. this condemnation was only adopted by amendments in the plenary with the votes of the group of the european right. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the power to adopt legislative acts in the field of the environment, and to adopt a directive on the protection of the environment. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which i tabled on behalf of my group, the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, together with my colleagues from the group of the european people's party, and the amendments to the joint motion for a resolution, which were not sufficiently developed, and which were finally adopted.
in writing. ‒ the resolution illustrates the political understanding and consensus in the ep. the authors of the joint resolution admit in recital i that measures to combat the illicit trade in cultural goods, customs and border control do not fall explicitly within the eu's competence, as the treaties do not contain any corresponding provisions. that's totally right. but in the same recital, artificial links are immediately created to give the eu a new set of responsibilities over seven pages of resolution! i'm not playing this game. that is why i voted in favour of motion for a resolution b8-0389/2015, which i myself and some colleagues tabled on behalf of the group of the european right. we would point out that the import of goods, customs duties and excise duties and the legislation relating to them are primarily the responsibility of the individual member states and third countries. if existing national laws to prevent the import and sale of stolen cultural goods are completely inadequate in some countries, it is the national legislator, not the eu commission, who must improve. we call for the more effective use of interpol's database of stolen art to combat the illegal trade in cultural goods. and we commend the efforts of national police forces (such as the metropolitan police art and antiquities unit in the uk) in tackling crime in this area.
in writing. - years ago we were on holiday in the maldives. when we arrived, they took away a bottle of champagne we were going to celebrate the new year with. the customs officials justified this unfriendly act with the rules of islam. once on the island, we found that the hotel bar was better equipped than the one in hamburg, with all the usual brands of alcohol. another thing we noticed on the island was that the service personnel lived in shacks far from the sight of hotel guests. the government ruled the country in the way most islamic countries are ruled. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. a few years ago, a young, cosmopolitan prime minister was democratically elected in the maldives and began to turn the country around. today, in the european parliament, i voted with almost all the members in favour of a resolution which strongly protests against the conviction of the young bearer of hope who has now been deposed by the mullahs. under a flimsy pretext, the prime minister they overthrew by force is to spend 13 years in prison for trying to introduce "western values" into an islamic country.
in writing. ‒ i tabled the motion for a resolution with my colleagues from the group of the european people's party and i also signed the joint motion for a resolution on behalf of my group. that is why i am voting for this resolution. the european parliament called on the member states to warn about the human rights situation in the maldives on their travel advice websites. the maldives is experiencing political unrest, rising militant islamism and a growing number of radicalized young men who are believed to have joined isis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is a concrete step towards albania's eu membership. this objective was irrevocably expressed in the 'thessaloniki agenda for the western balkans: towards european integration' (conclusions of the european council of 19/20 june 2003 on the western balkans). the heads of state or government of the member states have already decided in brussels that serbia, albania, kosovo, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia and montenegro will become member states of the eu in the very near future. taxpayers' money is now being used to reform the western balkan countries to make them "eu-compatible" at all costs. the afd's eu election programme, however, says: 'first consolidation, then enlargement' and the party's candidate for the presidency is the german chancellor. i'm sticking to that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution because it is a concrete step towards eu membership for bosnia and herzegovina. this political objective was irrevocably expressed in the 'thessaloniki agenda for the western balkans: towards european integration' (conclusions of the european council of 19/20 june 2003 on the western balkans). the heads of state or government of the member states have already decided in brussels that serbia, albania, kosovo, bosnia and herzegovina, macedonia and montenegro will become member states of the eu in the very near future. taxpayers' money is now being used to reform the western balkan countries to make them "eu-compatible" at all costs. the afd's eu election programme, however, says: 'first consolidation, then enlargement' and the party's candidate for the presidency is the german chancellor. i'm sticking to that.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report on the annual report of the european investment bank. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the european parliament's role in the decision-making process is based on the principle of subsidiarity. i am against any bond purchases by the european central bank. it is therefore unlawfully exceeding its mandate. parliament cannot welcome this, because it is thereby making itself an accomplice.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. the european parliament calls on the commission and the member states to use the theme of expo 2015 in milan ('feeding the planet, energy for life') to 'set commitments to guarantee the right to adequate, healthy, sustainable and conscious food'. it 's true . brussels dictates how the enlightened man should feed himself! of course, a healthy and balanced diet is advisable, and this includes supporting local products and traditional eating habits. but this should not be chewed up by brussels! the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
in writing. ‒ i tabled the motion for a resolution tabled by the group of the european people's party and i also signed the joint motion for a resolution on behalf of my group. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution. the concrete threat of islamist terrorism in germany, europe and the world is forcing society to debate the relationship between islam and violence. the eu is not well equipped to discuss islam, however, because, despite many lip-service to supposedly western values, it has a very unclear relationship with europe's christian-cultural roots. the european parliament's president, martin schulz (spd), has officially denied europe's christian heritage. for christians, no violence in the name of religion. this was made clear by pope benedict xvi, head of the world's largest religious community, in his "lectio magistralis" in regensburg on september 12, 2006. we should all stick to that.
the next item is the extraordinary debate on the death penalty in indonesia (2015/2687 ((rsp)). i would point out to members that this debate is not a catch-the-eye procedure and that no blue cards will be accepted.
mr arnott, i have to say that i am very pleased. we have rules here, and the rules say that we have an extraordinary debate here. it was decided that we don't have a catch-the-eye procedure and we don't have a blue card. the rules of procedure also say that when you speak on the rules of procedure, you should only speak on the rules of procedure and not on the substance. otherwise, i shall be much more likely to deprive you of your speaking time in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not two days ago, eight people were executed in indonesia. indonesia has not carried out any executions in 2014, but 14 people have been executed so far this year. all those executed had been convicted of drug offences, although the death penalty - where it exists - is only permitted for the most serious crimes under international law. the recent cases of executions in indonesia also show serious violations of internationally recognised standards for the implementation of the death penalty. for example, some of the detainees had inadequate access to lawyers or translators during their detention. one of the executed, rodrigo gularte, was diagnosed with schizophrenia and was executed despite international law banning the execution of people with intellectual disabilities and mental illnesses. the indonesian government sees executions as a deterrent to drug traffickers. but there is no evidence that the death penalty helps prevent crime. a un study also shows that the death penalty has no greater deterrent effect than, for example, a life sentence. we therefore call on the indonesian government to suspend all further planned executions and we call for a moratorium to be reinstated as an essential step towards the abolition of the death penalty. indonesia could thus send an important signal to the other countries in the region.
member of the commission.– mr president, this has been a very engaging exchange and i thank the honourable members for the clarity and purpose of their interventions. let me assure you that the european union remains fully committed to engage in indonesia with the government, local campaigners and other stakeholders to work for the abolition of the death penalty in indonesia. to this end, we will make full use of the various instruments at our disposal – statements, demarches and dialogue – to make our voices heard, but also to listen and understand some of the obstacles to change so as to address them more effectively. as friends of indonesia, we call on the authorities and the president of indonesia to declare an immediate moratorium on the use of the death penalty.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on the case of nadija savchenko (2015/2663 ((rsp)).
mr preda, you do not have the floor. mr tarabella, that was not a question, that was a statement. i shall allow mr preda to comment on this, for an exceptional reason.
for the next catch-the-eye procedure, i have a lot more word messages than i'm supposed to. we actually scheduled two minutes. i ask for your indulgence in not taking into account those who have already spoken in today's debate. catch the eye
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you're the vice president. you know exactly what's going on here. you've done some catching-the-eye yourself. have you ever given the floor to anyone under the 'catch-the-eye' procedure on the rules of procedure? i'm not going to. you also know that we have a lot of verbal messages here. i announced i could actually take two. two of my colleagues didn't show up, so i'm calling four, and you're not in.
i shall take your remarks into due consideration.
mr president, i want to join my colleagues in what they have said. i am very pleased and always delighted that there is a unanimous voice here across all the factions and we all agree that mrs savchenko should be released. this story clearly shows how russia is violating international treaties, international law and also its own domestic law, because the way the trial is conducted in russia is also contrary to russian criminal law. it is clear that the delay in ms. savchenko's trial was in violation of international law, and it is clear that there is no attempt to conduct a fair trial. so if anyone is talking about letting the courts in russia decide, they're very naive and they're a dreamer. in short, if russia wanted to solve the case, it could have been made clear that ms. savchenkov is innocent and she could have been released a long time ago. if this is a monster trial and mrs savchenko is a victim of it, then it is good that we are adopting this resolution in support of her today.
member of the commission.– mr president, a hundred and thirty-eight days have passed since nadiya savchenko started a hunger strike in protest against her illegal detention in russia. let me be very clear from the outset and convey once again, in front of this house, the message that we have repeatedly delivered to russian interlocutors: russia should immediately release ms savchenko. firstly, let us recall that ms savchenko was captured in ukraine by russian-backed separatists. she was subsequently formally charged last friday by the russian investigative committee of being complicit in the deaths of two russian journalists. the material evidence pointing to her innocence was never allowed to be produced in court. it is absurd to charge her with illegally crossing the border when she was already captive before being transferred to russia. secondly, the ongoing investigation and possible trial of ms savchenko in russia are surrounded by irregularities, as well as raising the issue of the competence of russian courts to judge a ukrainian member of the rada, and furthermore a member the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. the eu delegation in moscow is in frequent contact with ms savchenko’s lawyers and is regularly present in the court to follow her proceedings. thirdly, the intention of the russian authorities to put her on trial in russia is not in keeping with the minsk agreements and the commitment to release all hostages and detained persons related to the conflict in ukraine. finally, the situation of ms savchenko, at such an advanced stage of her hunger strike, is a humanitarian issue. russia bears responsibility for her fragile health. the situation is unbearably difficult for her family, as many of you will also have heard from meetings with her sister, vira. the situation of nadiya savchenko raises two key issues: firstly, it sheds light on the situation regarding the rule of law and human rights in russia, which this house has repeatedly discussed. on this, our message is clear: russia should live up to its international obligations in the field of human rights. we will stand behind those who protect human rights in russia. secondly, the case of ms savchenko, who was initially kidnapped in donbass, is a reminder of the situation in eastern ukraine. freedom for nadiya savchenko and for all illegally detained ukrainian citizens held in russia, such as oleg sentsov, would be a step towards the resolution of the conflict. this is once again why i, on behalf of the commission and the high representative, join this house in calling for their immediate and unconditional release. (applause)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the two following debates. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in the jarmuk refugee camp in syria (2015/2664 (rsp)).
for the next catch-the-eye procedure, i have again a lot more word messages. we'll narrow it down to three. catch the eye
member of the commission.– mr president, on behalf of the high representative i would like to thank you for adding this important and very sad subject to this week’s plenary agenda. the european union is seriously concerned at the continued deterioration of the security and humanitarian situation in syria. the conditions in the palestinian refugee camp in yarmouk in particular have become critical and need to be addressed with utmost urgency. after three years of besiegement by the syrian regime, the recent escalation of violence by different fighting sides is putting the camp’s population at serious risk. the continued denial of humanitarian access by the syrian regime and armed opposition groups to the refugees living in yarmouk is unacceptable. the high representative made this clear in her statement on behalf of the european union of 18 april as well as in her joint statement with commissioner stylianides. the un security council issued a presidential statement along the same lines on 20 april. all sides should cease hostilities to ensure immediate and unhindered humanitarian access to those in need inside the camp and to provide safe passage for all civilians who wish to leave the camp, in accordance with un security council resolutions 2139, 2165 and 2191. we urge all parties to use their influence over the fighting groups to ensure that these fundamental principles of international humanitarian law, including the protection of civilians inside the camps, are fully respected. we commend the un relief and works agency for palestinian refugees (unrwa) for the important work it is doing and we will continue to work together with unrwa commissioner-general pierre krähenbühl, and all other partners to help alleviate the suffering of the people in greatest need. the commission released immediate emergency funding of eur 2.5 million to unrwa’s operation to deliver lifesaving assistance to palestinian refugees in syria through cash and emergency relief items, and it stands ready to scale it up if needed. this emergency decision came in addition to a eur 10 million contribution to unrwa in december last year. more generally, as part of the european union’s 2015 humanitarian funding for syria, the european union’s support will continue to reinforce the capacity of partner organisations on the ground in order to enable them to provide a rapid humanitarian response in the case of a sudden deterioration of the situation. this funding extends to all parts of syria affected by the conflict, with specific focus on the recent violence in yarmouk, idlib, dara’a and aleppo. this emergency funding also goes together with the eur 33 million contribution to unrwa provided since 2011 from the european neighbourhood instrument to sustain assistance to palestinian refugees in syria in cash assistance, education and health. we also called on the un special envoy, staffan de mistura, to work with all parties towards the comprehensive implementation of the geneva communiqué of 30 june 2012 leading to a genuine political transition that meets the legitimate aspirations of the syrian people and enables them independently and democratically to determine their own future. we will continue to fully support the victims of the syria crisis.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the next debate. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the detention of human rights and workers' rights activists in algeria (2015/2665 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission is not we have close historical, economic and political ties with algeria as the european union. we also have an association agreement. and under this association agreement there is, of course, a human rights dialogue. but it's frozen. the commission has in its last report stated that the independence of the judiciary is still a problem and in particular freedom of assembly is a huge problem where independent organisations are concerned. today we're talking about independent unions. it is perhaps not wrong to point out in this context that even amnesty international is unfortunately illegal in algeria. the activists we're talking about today are unionists who have stood up for unemployed people, who have peacefully demonstrated, who have been sentenced to long prison terms for peaceful activity. these are activities which algeria has recognized as legal and legitimate under the international instruments it has ratified. these people must be released, and our human rights dialogue must be improved.
in order to get to the votes, i shall call only two colleagues to the following catch-the-eye procedure. catch the eye
i would like to thank mr tarabella. mr castaldo is usually very fast. he speaks french today. you've been blinking all day, and the interpreters won't come. perhaps you should try italian, like mr castaldo did with french today.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, algeria is one of the eu’s closest neighbours. we are formally linked by an association agreement and by a series of cooperation programmes. we have been negotiating an action plan since 2012 in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. we share common challenges, ranging from regional security to unemployment. our peoples have similar aspirations to welfare, human rights, democracy and prosperity. we ought to face those challenges and meet those aspirations through cooperation. our discussions with algeria on human rights have allowed us to identify areas of concern, notably freedom of association, the right to peaceful assembly and the right to establish independent trade unions. we have conveyed those concerns to our algerian partners in our political dialogue subcommittee, our social affairs subcommittee and our association committee. we will continue to do so in the future. we are conscious of algeria’s interest in social dialogue. that is why we are concerned by the severity of the sentence given by an algerian court against several labour activists. even if it is not a governmental decision, such a ruling could only undermine algeria’s reputation and elicit criticism from human rights defenders, associations and other stakeholders. in this context, the eu and algeria have agreed to work on the reform of the justice system. the aim is to improve access to justice, reinforce the independence of the courts and further professionalise the actors in this sector. similarly, the eu could support algeria in its implementation of the international labour organisation’s convention 87. the eu aims to develop a democratic, stable and prosperous neighbourhood, based on a commitment to fundamental values, including the rule of law and human rights. we look forward to continuing our cooperation with algeria in this framework.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place after the debate.
the next item is the vote. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have first amendment no 2. the services tell me that the oral amendment would also be compatible with amendment no 2. that is why i would ask him to put it to the vote. before the vote on amendment no 2:
mr president, the reason why it would also apply to the text if amendment 2 were adopted is because it is purely technical; the date of the sentence of mohamed rag was confirmed upon appeal not on 15 april but on 18 march. that is the only change, it is simply a change of date, and has been made in consultation with our other colleagues.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that's the way it is. this too has been discussed with the colleagues in advance. the point is to delete the names of youssef sultani, abdelhamid brahimi and ferhat missa from the text in recital b because it is not true in the wording in which it appears here. the activists concerned are in different stages of their respective proceedings. the three names should therefore be deleted. that too has been discussed.
- i'm not going to. are you sure you want to apply for this? i think it now refers to the top of your leaf. i think we need to change the date.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you are right, that is the proposal i have just made. in the case of recital b, it is actually the question of the date that is at issue. the first paragraph referred to the activists mentioned earlier, and that was discussed earlier. i hope we can apply this analogously. thank you, thank you!
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned. (the sitting was closed at 5.15 p.m.)
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 30 april 2015.
i am not going to go into detail. it is with great sadness that we learned of the sudden death of our colleague hans jansen on 5 may at the age of 72. mr jansen was a member of the development committee and the delegation for relations with afghanistan following his election to the european parliament in 2014. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our condolences to the family and friends of mr jansen.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday 13 may 2015 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. in agreement with the groups, i propose first of all that the vote on the reports of the joint debate on the common security and defence policy be postponed to thursday's voting time and that the vote on the commission's delegated regulation on ethyl alcohol of agricultural origin be postponed from thursday to wednesday's voting time. so, security on thursday, ethyl alcohol on wednesday. i see overwhelming support.
thank you very much, mr viotti. but that has nothing to do with today's agenda. the final draft agenda, which i mentioned earlier, has been amended as follows: monday: no changes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the green group also calls for a roll-call vote. i call mrs harms to speak on the grounds.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not my group had already said during the last plenary session, when viktor orbán's move in favour of the death penalty in hungary became known and a questionnaire was distributed in which the refugee policy in hungary was to be clarified by means of a referendum, that we should agree on a debate and a resolution. it is not only since the tavares report that we have seen that we in hungary have a problem with viktor orbán and his majority not respecting the values of the european union but actively opposing them. i think that for the european union to function and be cohesive in the long term, we need not just something like the fiscal compact, but we actually need to make it binding that the values apply. we therefore call for a resolution to be discussed and adopted in this house because of the worsening situation in hungary.
before i put these motions to the vote, i should like to make the following procedural announcement. the latvian presidency has informed me by letter of 14 may that it does not wish to take part in this debate because of the council's position. at the same time, i have a letter from prime minister orbán asking to take part in the debate here. i would like to begin by informing you, as a matter of procedure, that i am not aware of any case in which the presidency of the council has refused to take part in a debate in parliament on the grounds that there is no council position. (applause from the centre) we would have to say that for a whole host of legislative procedures the council would then have to be on holiday all the time. that's not an argument. i would of course invite mr orbán to come to this house if he wishes. i have, since i became president of this parliament, observed the rule that members of the european council can of course visit the european parliament and express their views here if they wish. i think this is the place where european policy should be made public. this is the european parliament! i therefore fully intend to comply with mr orbán's wishes. what is not possible, however, is for mr orbán to assume the role of president. we must therefore set out a procedural approach. i have therefore asked the chairmen of all the political groups to come to my office shortly after this opening so that we can clarify the question of how we are going to deal with this matter in the procedural sense tomorrow. you have heard the arguments in support of the two motions for resolutions tabled by mrs harms and mr guerrero. does anyone wish to speak in favour of the motion tabled by the green group and the socialist group?
i'll have to confirm that for the sake of accuracy. i would have added that now, mr szájer, but you have got ahead of me. i announced at the last plenary session that i would call mr orbán. i did that. i had a long phone conversation with him. in that telephone call he said exactly what mr szájer has just said, namely that his government has no intention of taking any legislative action to introduce the death penalty. i have also published a press release in agreement with him. (parliament adopted the proposal)
i think i have made my position on the council's behaviour quite clear here. wednesday: no changes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs cora van nieuwenhuizen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts (com (2013) 0641 - c7-0301/2013 - 2013/0314 (cod)) (a8-0131/2015).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr silva pereira, on his excellent report. the problem isn't the good report. the problem is not a great deal of agreement here in the development committee or in parliament. the problem is our member states. i just want to focus my speech on the fact that we have a big failure here. it is about the credibility of the eu, and it is about the credibility of the member states. i come from germany, a not so poor country. but germany is failing on this issue. germany has made little progress on the commitments. instead of 0.7%, germany has so far reached 0.4%. we have four countries in europe that have achieved this goal; i should like to say this clearly: these are the united kingdom, sweden, denmark and luxembourg. and the other member states are sticking to the lofty target of 0.7%. but they haven't even agreed on a timetable. this is a single reproach to our member states. i would like to add a second point: of course we need more money, of course we need more efficiency. but sometimes it would also help if we as rich countries simply took less from the poor countries. in this context, i would like to refer again to the discussion on conflict minerals. i hope that in positioning itself for this one or other group will reconsider its position.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the run-up to the addis ababa financing conference and one year before the revision of the eu budget 2014-2020, i would like to focus on two aspects in particular. the first is that 0.7% of each member state's gross national income should be allocated to development cooperation. the eu member states renewed their commitment in 2000. but only four member states have achieved this, and germany is unfortunately not among them. the second is policy coherence in the sense of development policy, so that money is spent in a targeted way and not in a hedged way, and that other potentials are exploited. all the eu's policies, such as trade, environment, agriculture, education and finance, need to be more closely interlinked. the eu's objectives of reducing poverty in developing countries, empowering women and girls in these countries and improving education can only be achieved through policy coherence. it is a matter of the european parliament and the council to be able to take a decision on the matter. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to take an example of the question of coherence. we have fought, as european social democrats, for fishing rights, for fishing in other seas to be fairer and for quotas to be reduced. this is a key point, an example where policy coherence can and must be divided not just into giving money, but also into acting fairly and participating in trade together. in this area, for example, we must control quotas much more closely and introduce new control mechanisms if we are to achieve this objective.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr ferrand, are you aware that, after referring your remarks to schengen, cigarette smuggling is related to the free movement of goods, but schengen is related to the free movement of persons? maybe you got confused.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today's debate is a flight forward. i very much welcome the fact that the commission is finally speaking out publicly after all the secrecy we have been experiencing on this subject for almost two or three years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. how have these agreements curbed the smuggling of their own products? i would like to say that these agreements are not anti-fraud agreements. the question of what they are is an important one. the documents that we've seen, that i've looked at, still show huge gaps in the tobacco supply chain, and the systems are far from foolproof. i also failed to see that olaf had actually pressed for a change. i was amazed at the donkey patience with which the office acted, almost the disinterest. especially since the office is no longer present in important places of cigarette smuggling - and you rightly pointed out that the cheap whites are the bigger problem for us - namely in kaliningrad or in china. i would like to say something about the debate with my colleague from the front national: if schengen had anything to do with it, or the eu, then we would have no problem with a lot of places in the world. i would insist on the release of all documents that do not involve trade secrets related to track and trace or know your customer. these are extremely important stories to be able to evaluate the tobacco agreements. what we should really have is the reasonable expectations of the tobacco companies, which are letters, we should have the annual additional seizure payments and of course all the statistical documents, because i cannot see any trade secrets here either. and of course, all olaf's contacts with the tobacco industry should be disclosed. the tobacco industry has a seat at the negotiating table thanks to the agreements, and it should also be said quite frankly that these agreements give the industry hope, also in cooperation with the member states. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, then you can simply ask my government. i am here as a member of the european parliament and not as a spokesman for the german government.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs georgieva, for her report. so i'm a happy german social democrat, not a green. when i have finished my speech, you will also see the difference between me and mr bové. i think that makes it a little bit clearer. i would like to draw attention to a point which has not yet been raised in the debate, and which makes the fight against cigarette smuggling particularly important. the structures of organised crime are behind it. this stuff has to be imported, it has to be distributed. the cash that is received has to be laundered, so the money has to be put back into the money cycle. the cigarette smuggling that is taking place in europe at the moment can only take place on the basis of organized crime. and this is a democracy-undermining situation that we cannot take seriously enough. it is true that the major dangers are no longer posed by the relevant cigarette brands, but by the so-called cheap whites. in berlin, for example, a brand which is not legally available in germany has now a 25% share of consumption. this also shows the extent to which this has taken place. the agreements are therefore certainly not the means to curb smuggling, and we will have to do more to do that. the eu should also ensure that eu olaf agents are present in the main capitals of cigarette producing countries and are in contact with the authorities. i think this is particularly important, and it is not acceptable that olaf should only be represented in kiev. this clearly needs to be expanded. but the tobacco agreements are certainly a means of doing something else. i do not agree - as my colleagues from the green group and the christian-democratic group have asked - that we should stop the negotiations, not at all. what else are we supposed to do besides talk? we cannot go much further with appeals, so i am clear: let them hit us where it hurts, namely with money. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i can see the difference. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the statement you made about the situation, about the assessment of the world health organization, may then no longer be up to date, because the accusation that the tobacco industry itself supports the smugglers no longer seems to be true, at least for this company. i believe that this is a very direct result of the agreements, and that is why i support them.
the commission has already done so. i'm a little surprised you call tobacco smugglers smugglers. excuse me, but to me, it's health and tax criminals. they'll understand. i have been dealing with the ladies and gentlemen for 20 years now, we have just adopted the tobacco products directive, and we are already in the process of breaking down the traceability criteria and giving companies the possibility of individual contracts again. that's just wrong. we must now finally do what we decided to do a year and a half ago, which is to develop traceability strategies. can i tell you something about that? the tobacco industry - and you mentioned london - is very interested in participating in this traceability system and is very interested in declaring as much contraband as possible and as few counterfeits as possible. because they have to pay for the counterfeits themselves and not for the contraband. that's the system until now. we need to work on that. we cannot explain to our children that such a system of free trade is still possible in this century! so don't give it all the gas about the continuance of this contract, but give it all the gas about the clarification. my esteemed colleague, mrs gräßle, has mentioned the details, and i do not want to repeat them because they are so good.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like first of all to state that the commission has already started to explore ways to implement the definitive vat regime. this regime should be based on the principle of taxation at the place of destination. reviewing the scope of the application of reduced rates is part of this exercise. in general, it is important that the vat system be applied fairly and efficiently, without giving any sector or any business an advantage, nor inviting the relocation of activities within the eu based on vat rules. the commission intends to communicate its vision of the main features of a future definitive vat regime next year. the current tax treatment of e—services, such as digital books and the digital press, will be reviewed in this framework. i would personally support an initiative for reduced rates on e—books and the digital press. on the taxation of the digital economy, i am also fully aware of the complaints which we have received, mainly from the united kingdom, on the impact of the new 2015 vat rules on microbusinesses. in the digital single market strategy, the commission will come up with proposals in 2016 to reduce the administrative burden on businesses relating to vat; the extension of the current single electronic registration and payment mechanism to intra-eu and third country on-line sales of tangible goods; the introduction of an eu-wide simplification measure in the form of a vat threshold to help small start-up e-commerce businesses; and the possibility to carry out so-called home country controls, which means a single vat audit framework for cross-border businesses.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr vice-president, first of all, thank you very much for coming tonight. i would like to quote very briefly from a 2013 european parliament resolution on completing the digital single market. we have already explicitly stressed in paragraph 51 that we must ensure that consumers do not encounter obstacles when they want to buy electronic books across borders, platforms or devices. the european commission has not yet done much to this end. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is taking action to combat the problem of the illegal trade in human beings. it is obvious, mr vice-president, that the reader of a book must pay the same vat rate for that service, whether he uses the book as a hard copy or as a digital service. it is simply not possible to explain why two different vat rates should be applied. i would therefore like to make a very specific request on behalf of the epp group that we start as soon as possible to examine the judgment against france and against luxembourg in the light of equal treatment of comparable services in the european internal market and to move as quickly as possible towards a change in the vat directive with a view to ensuring tax uniformity in the digital single market. mr vice president! secondly, we have very little time, so i will come straight to the second point: it is not only vat that requires a uniform taxation of different services, or in the case of the present one, a corresponding hardcopy, but we must also urgently look for ways of simplifying for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are supposed to develop their home market in this digital single market. that is why, in the digital age, i very much welcome the one-stop shop, especially for smaller companies. mr president, i would like to say to you that the epp group will be at your side when it comes to negotiating with the 28 member states on what we can do to make these facilities eventually available to small and mediumsized enterprises.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. there are many good cultural policy reasons why there is a reduced vat rate on printed books, printed newspapers and printed magazines. it is therefore also correct to say that when it comes to digital services - e-books, e-papers and e-magazines - it is also correct to apply the reduced vat rate to these products. if we think of the unesco convention for the protection of cultural diversity, it states that cultural goods are never just goods like other goods, but bearers of meaning and significance and therefore may be regulated differently. i do not want to hide the fact that there is, of course, a very different debate, namely that there are now too many exemptions from vat and that there are good reasons for achieving greater uniformity in this area in order to contribute to greater fairness and clearer rules. but i would like to emphasize again: as long as there is a reduced vat rate for printed books and newspapers, the same must apply to the digital world, for digital services such as e-books, e-papers and e-magazines. i also think that the commission must act very quickly. we have no time to lose, but there is an urgent need for action. i would therefore urge you to act quickly and not to let any more time pass.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think it is absolutely right what has been said here, both to relieve smes, including bureaucratic obstacles, and to simplify e-commerce and to ensure that books - whether published in electronic form or in paper form - are ultimately subject to the same tax rules. i think that's important and right. but at the same time i believe that it is necessary, as the european court of justice has emphasized, for the european states, the nation states, to continue to have the fiscal sovereignty to determine which tax regulations apply in their states. the commission should also bear in mind that not every sensible regulation has to be made at european level. some things can still be regulated in a meaningful way in the national states.
for the next catch-the-eye procedure, we have more than twice as many requests as we have time. i therefore ask you to understand that i cannot take into account speakers who have already spoken in a previous debate in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure. catch the eye
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you cordially for this fruitful debate. i would like to reflect on your question, sophia, on why i am here and why pierre moscovici is not here. pierre moscovici is right now in the bundestag in berlin and this is the reason why i am here, but i think that both of those issues are directly related to the digital single market and this is the reason why i had to be here. both those issues have a very long history but, as you said, there is a common understanding in the commission that both of those issues are urgent issues. so let us talk about moss reform. in 2004, our small and medium-sized companies were complaining because there was no fair competition. for big companies, for global players, it was so easy to remove their headquarters to countries where tax rates were at a very low level, and in this way our small and medium-sized companies were just out of the competition. that is why this reform was made. the decision was made in 2008 already. but, during those debates between 2004 and 2008, it was proposed by the commission to set a threshold at quite a high level, under which our small and medium-sized companies did not have to declare their vat revenue; and it was rejected by member states. this is one of those reasons why many people, many entrepreneurs, complained, and this is once again, according to my understanding, the reason why we had to propose to set this threshold for our micro-companies at quite a high level once again. i have stated it publicly many times already: according to my understanding, we proposed setting this threshold at the level of eur 100 000, as it was during the years 2004 to 2008, and i think that our member states were able to understand why this is so important for our small businesses. talking about e-books, the decision was made in 2001 already not to allow those reduced vat rates to be applied on e-services like e-books. why is this question an urgent issue right now? it is because of this decision we had from the european court of justice just last year and we had to act. as president jean-claude juncker stated already, we would like to propose to allow those reduced rates also to be used on e-books. we will get a report about the vat moss this summer already, and on the basis of this report we can say when we will be able to make our proposals that change our legislation. so the commission is acting already and i promise that i will do my utmost to make those proposals as soon as possible.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to draw your attention once again to a very important subject, the transatlantic free trade agreement with the united states. and that is why - something perhaps unusual in this house - because i want to talk about the rule of law and democracy. i would like to point out that you should work to ensure that this free trade agreement remains and will remain a free trade agreement and that any attempt to negotiate things into it that undermine the rule of law, restrict the rule of law at the national level, potentially undermine democracy and transfer decision-making powers that actually belong to elected parliaments to supranational levels is prevented in this house as far as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission will soon be crossing a new red line. it will propose that the eu should also be given powers for direct corporate taxation for the first time. the commission is proposing to make the corporation tax base uniform across the eu. the member states will then have sole discretion over the tax rate. the eu does the rest. unfortunately, there are also voices in my party who want to give the eu these powers. but these votes are also forming a new party and will soon be leaving the afd. the afd is in fact for less eu, for competition and against equality, also and especially in tax law, in all areas of tax law, including the tax base. i want to make it clear: the eu must not be given any competence in the field of direct taxation. this is a national matter. that is the responsibility of the member states. and that's the way it's got to stay.
that concludes this item.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by piernicola pedicini on safe healthcare in europe: improving patient safety and tackling antimicrobial resistance (2014/2207 (ini)) (a8-0142/2015).
i'll be glad to explain. i'll explain it to you when you have the word. at the moment, mr kelly has the word. (interruption by mr frunzulică) mr. chairman, i call to order. (interruption by mr frunzulică) that's not true, man. i gave you the floor in the last meeting. please sit down. order, please. (the president dismissed mr frunzulică from the chamber and asked the members to escort him out of the chamber.)
thank you very much, mr kelly. i would have liked to have explained this to mr frunzulica. the catch-the-eye procedure is not designed to serve the interests of the political groups but primarily to allow ordinary members to speak, to participate in the debate and to express themselves. if there are too many words, then you have to follow the criteria. the criterion now was that i cannot, unfortunately, allow those colleagues who have already spoken to speak first. i thank mr marias for his understanding and mr šoltes, for example, whom i will not allow to speak now because he has already spoken. instead, i gave the floor to the five colleagues in the room who have not yet spoken on the catching-the-eye procedure. that is why mr kelly was the last speaker. i'll hold this line. it was not ten times that mr frunzulică did not speak. i gave him the floor in the last debate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur mr pedicini and by congratulating the members of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) on their excellent work. on patient safety, i am glad to see that the report, while recognising the progress made so far, seeks to go further and do more for the safety of citizens. i also welcome the call for enhanced cooperation with stakeholders in the interests of a coordinated, comprehensive and sustainable eu approach to patient safety. this call is in line with the council conclusions on patient safety and quality of care adopted on 1 december 2014 under the italian presidency. the proposed report also rightly underlines the importance of having sufficient health professionals, including in hospital settings, with the right skills and up-to-date knowledge. turning to antimicrobial resistance (amr), i would like to underline how important it is that antibiotics be dispensed only under prescription, and that treatment with antibiotics is based on proper diagnosis. amr knows no borders and can spread between humans, animals, the environment and food. the cost to human and animal health is high, as is the direct impact on our economies. all this points to the urgent need for coordinated efforts to combat amr. for many years, this issue has been a priority for the commission. in 2011, we launched the five-year action plan based on the ‘one healthʼ concept, involving all sectors and aspects of antimicrobial resistance. three and a half years later, we can be proud that important progress has been made in europe and that the action plan has contributed to increasing international awareness about this serious worldwide public health concern. i am confident that together – parliament, the member states, the commission and civil society – we can succeed in improving further patient safety and in stepping up the fight against antimicrobial resistance.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 may. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr philippe de backer on 'opportunities for environmentally sound growth for smes' (2014/2209 (ini)) (a8-0135/2015).
member of the commission.– mr president, i am really glad to see the european parliament’s interest in fostering green growth opportunities for smes. i really want to congratulate mr de backer on this report because the green action plan is at the heart of the commission’s priorities – the transformation of eu industry through innovation and modernisation with the involvement of smes. resource efficiency is one of the drivers for industrial transformation with positive effects on the environment. europe has much to gain, as has already been said: up to eur 630 billion per year in resource savings. our starting point is good. eco-industry and eco-innovation currently supply one third of the global market for green technologies. but let me point to a few issues also indicated in the report. one point is that 75% of smes in the eu have seen an increase in their costs of materials in the past five years. my second point is that, in manufacturing smes, raw materials – and this is really important – represent on average 40% of total costs, with energy and water pushing this up to 50%. this compares, for example, to a share of 20% for labour costs. the third point is that reducing energy consumption is a priority for 80% of medium-sized companies. finally – and this point was also made by mr šoltes – smes find it difficult to get value from their waste. we are very pleased to see that the rapporteur and the commission have identified similar challenges and proposed similar actions, specifically in the areas of improving financing, facilitating innovation and strengthening cross-sectoral collaboration and knowledge transfer, in particular to clusters. on access to finance, which is a key priority for the commission, we will work to ensure complementarity between different eu sources. the commission is currently working on an ambitious package to pave the way towards a circular economy. the green action plan for smes is intended to enable smes to turn this challenge into real business opportunities. we welcome your support for the forthcoming european resource efficiency excellence centre, which will provide information and advice on the performance and cost-effectiveness of different resource-efficient options, directly and through partners to smes. we want to reach as many smes as possible. knowledge sharing among the centre, the renewed enterprise europe network and european clusters will be instrumental in this. clusters are catalysts for sme cooperation and, by putting smes at the centre of such collaboration in our call under the horizon 2020 programme, clusters can contribute to europe’s industrial transformation in a more resource-efficient economy. once again i would like to thank you very much for the valuable input of your assembly on this topic. i really look forward to continuing our dialogue in the future for the benefit of all european smes.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 19 may. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i hope that in all the reflections we will be making in the hours and days leading up to the vote, we will be focusing on the people in the conflict areas. we need a regulation that helps people on the ground quickly. we do not need a regulation which will never come into force, which may be more pleasing to some political activists in europe, but which will not reach the people in the end. we need something that can go through parliament and the council quickly and arrive on the ground. i therefore warmly congratulate the commission on its comprehensive approach. i think it is important that you have stressed once again, commissioner, that it is not just the legislation that is at issue, but also the accompanying measures. we have made some adjustments in the committee on external trade and made certain areas compulsory, for example for the smelters. but i think we should also learn from the negative experiences of other countries. i believe that the dodd-frank act was not just good for the people on the ground. the rapporteur and the commissioner have also commented on this: it is a de facto partial embargo against the congo. it has led to the closure of small mines, the loss of income for workers, the illegal migration of families, the increase in smuggling, the creation of new addictions. and that is precisely what we do not want to see in our european legislation. we should learn from the mistakes of others. i therefore hope that we will adopt legislation that is somewhat more flexible, as we decided today in the committee on foreign trade. i'd appreciate it if we could carry them together. i call on the council not to let the dossier fall asleep, but to move quickly. i would like to expressly signal the willingness of our group to discuss the next steps if, contrary to expectations, nothing improves in the next two or three years. but we should not throw out the child with the bath and deprive the local people of their livelihood. unfortunately, it does the opposite.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. let us again examine why we want to pass this law: people are victims of conflicts over raw materials or at least financed by the sale of raw materials. the perpetrators' profit chain extends to the european union. this regulation is intended to help bring transparency to the supply chains of the manufacturing industry and thereby to end or at least make more difficult the business of war, rape and child labour. this is why we need this law, mrs malmström, mr caspary, ladies and gentlemen, to be effective. let us listen to denis mukwege, let us listen to many experts from the conflict regions, to church representatives, even to business circles! they all say: a voluntary commitment by firms is not enough; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied. the draft inta committee resolution, adopted by a narrow majority, would, however, oblige only 20 european smelters to cooperate. in other words, 80% of the raw materials sold from the congo alone would not be affected by this regulation, because the bulk of the smelting takes place in asia. we cannot yet make this regulation binding on the whole processing chain. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is time to do something concrete for the victims of the atrocities of the conflicts. and here the circle of eliminating the causes of conflict that we are all talking about closes, in the face of the refugee tragedies in the mediterranean and elsewhere. i would like to say at least - and this is not a populist statement, but a concrete responsibility of parliament - that the ep is working to ensure that people are not forced to leave their homes.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner malmström and many colleagues have pointed out the great damage caused by conflict minerals in the world and the serious violations of human rights. the problem is that the bill as it came from the commission and as it came from the trade committee simply does not fit with this problem, with these serious human rights violations. because commitment doesn't help. voluntary certification is already possible, but only 12% of companies use this option at all. and those who do, they only use them because they want to export to the us market. we need binding regulations for everyone and for the whole supply chain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules are applied in a uniform manner. we make a fool of ourselves when we tell the people on the ground, "yes, you have a hard life. yes, there are the human rights violations. and what are we going to do about it? we are counting on the voluntary nature of business! i think we are a parliament: we should be making laws and not recommendations for action. there are a number of amendments to this effect, and i very much hope that a majority of colleagues will support this, so that we can finally make a real change on the ground and so that we do not hope that some day some companies will finally put human rights above profits. it's never worked before.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague martin! if i've understood you correctly between the lines, you're assuming that our side of the house has no interest in the people on the ground. i reject that. we care about the people! so my question to you is: do you agree that we in the european parliament in the last parliamentary term adopted three regulations in which we made very clear what we wanted in the european parliament but then got stuck in the council because we wanted too much in some details, and that perhaps we should learn from this mistake and not repeat what happened with the 'made-in' regulation, what happened with the ipi, the instrument for market opening in public procurement, and what happened with the third regulation on the revision of trade defence instruments? we want to help people and not hide behind great decisions in parliament that will never come true.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we live in an era of globalised value chains, and i think that from a value-based trade policy perspective, we have to make sure that these globalised value chains are fair. this is not something that happens voluntarily, as we have just seen in the textile industry. we need binding requirements for companies so that fair conditions can also prevail. if i consider that only 20 smelters and refiners - and this is a correct approach, because this is the bottleneck - require commitment and the other 400 do not, then there is a glaring imbalance. we need a clear commitment from production to the melting to make sure that production is fair. let us be honest with ourselves. we know that the council always reduces the formative power of parliament's proposals. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and i am not sure that it will be possible to reach a decision on the matter.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what we want, of course, are fair rules, for the movement of goods and services on the one hand and for citizens in the digital single market on the other. but the art of fugue is how the balance is designed, how far it is between market developments and citizens whose free access is guaranteed, how far net neutrality is guaranteed. that's the question! and that means that we have to repackage two things. the first is to create a copyright reform worthy of the name. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. the only way to achieve a truly meaningful harmonisation of copyright is not to follow the money. but this consistency does not exist on paper. and the second idea: geoblocking should only be lifted in unjustified cases. we say that geoblocking must be abolished in general, because it is fundamentally unjustified, because it prevents internet users everywhere from accessing cultural content across borders. we want clarity here. we are not seeing that in the paper at the moment, and there is a lot of work to be done.
mr president, i would like to thank the vice—president for his proposals. i think this is a very good step forward. it is not the first step, by the way, to creating the digital single market, and i would like to bring our attention to the fact that, to create the digital single market, we need to pass legislative acts. that is what we need to do, and therefore the council – which i cannot see here – is an important partner to work with to create this digital single market. what i can see at the moment is that, on the telecoms single market, on the network and information security directive and on the data protection regulation – all three of which are fundaments for building the next step of the digital single market – the council is not coming along with general approaches, with positions, which are negotiable for us as a parliament. so i think that we need to insist first of all on the adoption of these legislative acts and then proceed with further measures. i think that you have made some good points, but there needs to be clear legislation, concrete formulations, about what you mean – for example – on platform neutrality and on geo-blocking; that is not enough, please try to improve the concreteness of these proposals.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i too, of course, welcome the fact that the commission has finally decided to present a horizontal approach to the development of this digital single market. but when jean-claude juncker promised during his election campaign that the digital single market would be one of his priorities, it was obvious that this would of course require many open legislative areas in the european single market to be addressed. and so we find a whole series of issues in this digital single market strategy where we have tried in recent years, or even decades, to bring them into line with the member states in order to reach a consensus. i am not talking about the still open issues of network and information security, data protection and the telecommunications internal market, where we are unfortunately not getting as far as we would like to in parliament. i am not even talking about consumer rights, which are mentioned again in this digital single market strategy. the fact is that this digital single market strategy makes it clear that the horizontal importance of the single market will simply have to go deeper and we will thus provoke resistance from the member states in many places. we must therefore ensure that we work together across all committees, not only at commission level but also in the european parliament, to win majorities so that all citizens in europe can benefit from this digital single market. if we succeed in doing so, this project will also bring europe closer together. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i thank you very much, mrs jaakonsaari. i believe that our common objective must be to make the digital single market a project that benefits not just a few companies but all citizens, regardless of how they want to be and are integrated into the digital single market. but i think we should not just be talking about individual services and comparing video-on-demand to a tv channel and so on. we should try to promote the principle that all citizens, all workers and all businesses have the same starting point. and i am very much looking forward to seeing what further ideas we will develop in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on this.
the commission has already done so. finally, the commission has woken up and is taking care of the digital revolution that we are experiencing in the global world. and that's a good thing! however, i must say that i was a little surprised when i read your text, because some of the statements are quite nebulous and many sentences can be read either this or the opposite. i would ask you to be very specific on these matters very quickly. i was also surprised to see that some areas of the internal market, which is also a priority of your strategy, have been totally left out. i am thinking in particular of the sharing economy uber, lyft, airbnb and others, where a revolution in the labour market is also taking place. it would be useful to know what the european commission is really planning to do in these areas.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the digital single market is an opportunity for consumers and for small and medium-sized enterprises. i therefore welcome the call to remove existing barriers. i would like to see not only the removal of national barriers, but also a healthy balance in the establishment of new rules at eu level. smes, not the interests of multinational corporations, may be the focus of this digital single market as the commission and some members of parliament are trying to shape it. i know from the committee's work that vicky ford and others are also exemplary in their commitment to smes. but we still have a lot of work to do here. we are not talking about the european parliament, but about the commission. if we really had the interests of smes in mind, we would have advocated simplification, less bureaucracy. we should understand that the opportunities of a digital single market lie in diversity and variety, variety and abundance of offer. and that is where smes are indispensable. but i think the eu also has a major responsibility to ensure that data is secured. the member states obviously cannot do this, or they cannot do it alone, as recent scandals in my own country have just shown. it is only when this essential prerequisite is secured to the greatest extent possible, i.e. according to the current state of technology, that i am prepared to consider e-government as a further step.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i welcome the commission's strategy for the digital single market. it is a good first step towards adapting european regulations to the realities of today's technological developments. but it needs to be deepened and made more concrete in many areas. the digital single market is essential for the economic development of the european union, but it also holds great potential for the preservation and dissemination of cultural creative content. the internet has radically changed the way we consume content, and where we consume it. therefore, the legal framework needs to be adapted to technological changes in order to facilitate legal access to online content, including across borders or from abroad. however, this requires special caution. for some european artistic and creative sectors, the territorial principle is at the heart of their financing structures and thus the prerequisite for diversity in creativity, for the production of new european content, especially for small and medium-sized producers, for specific cultural films adapted to their respective markets. we need to find a balance between the rights protected by copyright and the demands of consumers to consume digital content across national borders. i agree with the commission: portability is essential, but without destroying the economic framework for professional creation of creative content. the complete abolition of the territorial principle in any area would seriously jeopardize european cultural diversity. the result would be a concentration on a few large producers and mainstream offerings, which we certainly do not want. that's why we have to be extra careful here. on the subject of avmd, i would like to ask the commission to also include the issue of platform regulation more and to find regulations in the area of access and traceability. the diversity of cultural and audiovisual offerings must be accessible and discoverable by all european citizens, especially if there is already a presorting of the content offered by equipment manufacturers, network operators or content providers. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. in the field of cultural content in particular, it makes no sense to me that printed products are taxed differently from online products, for example. we must establish equivalence here. we need to change the vat directive. i hope that the commission will take up this matter as soon as possible and implement it, especially in this area.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the digital single market brings with it opportunities but also new challenges. a digital labour market will develop, changing working hours, forms of work and the way we work. the commission must do its homework here too: we need early answers and also rules. it is not just about skills, but about new forms of employment, a new form of social security, new ways of protecting workers and promoting their interests. and we're already seeing the challenge today. today, amazon employs people - employees, employees, self-employed people - from all over the world. they sign contracts that take minutes. people are spread all over the world, and there is no way to enforce common interests. and there must be no blueprint to simply set aside the people who are ultimately to buy in this single market and whose rights they are to have in the end. we need not only deregulation, we need new rules.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i welcome the commission's communication presenting the strategy for a digital single market in europe. the commission has in effect drawn up its own work programme, which will now be used to develop further initiatives in this area. what is envisaged in concrete terms will now be worked out in the coming weeks and months. i would just like to say that i am looking forward to it, because now we are going to see concrete proposals in detail. we shall certainly be discussing these matters in parliament. i think it is welcome that you have raised a lot of issues that are important for consumers - whether it is a uniform right to buy, whether it is data protection, you want to eliminate geoblocking, you want to reduce the cost of shipping within europe. all these are very important initiatives for consumers. i would ask you, commissioner, vice-president, to discuss and negotiate with us here on another matter: the abolition of roaming charges in the european union. that is not the specific subject of this package. but after the trialogue negotiations, we can use all the support we can get from the member states. i ask you to do everything you can to support us so that we can have a roaming-free europe soon. the last point i would like to make is that i think that the subject of industry 4.0 is not covered in your communication. i'd appreciate it if you could say two or three sentences after that. we have 26 million unemployed in the european union. i welcome the job creation that is taking place, also in relation to our traditional industries, which also need to make the transition to digitisation.
in writing. ‒ i believe that this report on safe healthcare in europe is of particular importance to all of us. every year, some 25 000 patients in the european union die of a serious infection caused by antibiotic-resistant bacteria, which are usually contracted in hospitals. in this context, i believe that only a holistic, cross-sectoral approach, covering a wide range of disciplines (human and veterinary medicine, research, animal husbandry, agriculture, environment, trade and communication), can tackle antibiotic resistance.
in writing. ‒ up to 25 000 people die in europe each year as a result of antibiotic resistance. we have to change that. increasingly, antibiotic resistance has been caused by the misuse of antibiotics in the past. some simple infections are now untreatable and pose a serious risk to patients. we must therefore encourage research into new active substances in europe. in veterinary medicine it is important to prevent the prophylactic use of antibiotics. we need a more responsible approach to medicines in europe. we can all help to make that happen. for example, a course of antibiotics should always be taken to the last tablet. we also need to develop solutions to treat treatment-associated infections. about one in ten patients admitted to hospital in the eu develops such an infection during treatment. this alone kills over 37 000 people in the eu every year. the budgetary pressures of many member states have been caused by the economic crisis. this cannot affect patient safety. our health systems must continue to be adequately funded.
in writing. ‒ the report 'safer healthcare in europe' provides recommendations for effective cooperation at european and international level in the fight against treatment-associated infections and antibiotic resistance. i support the recognition of the role of vaccination, which can limit the use of antibiotics and thus the development of antibiotic resistance. the report refers to the world health organisation's 'one health' concept and points out that human and animal health and ecosystems are interconnected. health measures should be developed accordingly. my group, the ecr, supports the call for greater cooperation between the public and private sectors to revitalise research and development in the field of antibiotics. i welcome the report's recommendation that the continuing education of all health professionals is important to prevent the spread of therapy-associated infections. infection control and prevention should not be the responsibility of unskilled workers. finally, my group was able to prevent the sale of antibacterial soap from being gradually banned in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. ‒ in my view, economic growth and environmental protection are not incompatible. on the contrary, it is in the field of green technology that european companies have great potential, including in the export market. in europe, we have set ourselves the target of bringing the share of industry in our economic output back to 20% by 2020. the promotion of sustainable industry and green technology is a factor that should not be underestimated. already today, over 90% of eu companies are working to be environmentally friendly. we must continue to support this commitment. we should be at the forefront of global competition and strengthen our industrial edge with innovative and environmentally friendly technologies. in particular, the export market offers untapped potential for european companies. we must improve the export conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular.
in writing. ‒ smes do not need new regulations, but first of all one: fewer rules, not only at national level but also at eu level. in fact, this approach is too often neglected in all efforts to help smes. smes in particular suffer disproportionately from the regulatory frenzy at all levels of government.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on growth opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). as always, this report has its ups and downs. i have nevertheless agreed with him on the question of parliamentary discipline. unfortunately, the report also includes, for example, a call for the inclusion of certain standards in ttip. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the eu has tightened the regulatory screw far too much. this is particularly damaging to smes, which, unlike large companies, cannot employ expensive legal departments to exploit the enormous number of potential loopholes in the pan-european rules. deregulation is therefore primarily a programme to disempower large companies and to revive competition, which is particularly beneficial to smes.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. all three reports outline a steady deterioration in security worldwide, especially in europe's neighbours to the south and east. there seems to be only one consequence here: more armaments, more money for the arms industry and arms research, more so-called robust eu operations and preferably all paid for by the eu budget. but what is cause, what is effect? if you do not debate the causes and your own contribution to it - of course, the spectrum of consequences is consequently small - a change of policy is not an issue. for example, the impact of the eu's external economic policy, which led to disastrous trade balances, including in the southern neighbourhood countries, is not discussed. the pursuit of geostrategic interests, the creation of markets, access to resources: when self-interest is at the top, when countries are even considered the backyards of power, then conflicts arise. to counter that, we'll need military resources. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. this is a huge problem for democracy. it is about more cooperation in defence, more spending on defence and the use of civilian funds for military purposes, for example for the development of drones, on the grounds that this would improve security and save money. that's not true! constant structured cooperation, pooling and sharing and battlegroups, all of this is not to relieve government budgets. these measures - and this has been demonstrated - do not save money. and the veto powers of parliaments over decisions on war and arms spending are being eroded. the peaceful union does not abolish a huge programme of subsidies for the armaments industry, for example by exempting it from vat, but disarms it.
i have to say, madam president, thank you, commissioner, for embracing the european parliament's level of ambition in european defence. i hope the foreign ministers and the ministers of defence will have the same ambition. it is a pity that they missed another opportunity yesterday in the council to question more strongly the actions and omissions of their own defence bureaucracies and the commission. i am personally satisfied with one thing, namely the preparatory action for csdp defence research. it's going pretty well. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i am dissatisfied to read that the policy framework for systematic and long-term defence cooperation is being welcomed. unfortunately, this paper only describes existing procedures. i ask: where is the courage to show the way to the establishment of permanent structured cooperation as provided for in the treaty of lisbon? the csdp funding: in the current conclusions, i read: 'there is scope for further discussion on the issue of gsdp financing.' that is a very thin statement. i ask: what have our governments and our defence bureaucracies done to move forward on the question of joint financing? it is not enough for the council to tell us that the review of the athena mechanism is complete. this review has only shown that existing decision-making procedures are indeed to be applied. i am missing a clear commitment by the member states to greater solidarity and the establishment of joint financing as a rule for jointly decided csdp missions.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, you reported with pride on the eu military action decided yesterday in the mediterranean. i am concerned that this is more a military adventure than a contribution to the refugee crisis. instead of clarifying the situation, mrs mogherini, you have been talking about the problem in various ways. they represent a unity of the member states over three levels of escalation, which we all know does not exist. they ignore the fact that it is already possible to destroy smugglers' ships on the high seas. that's why you don't need military action. they did not make a clear determination that a un security council mandate would be absolutely necessary for phase two and all subsequent phases. and you completely ignored that action directly off the coast of libya, or even on land, would bring the eu to the brink of involvement in the libyan civil war. if we are to make eu military policy, then at least with clarity!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think - if i may say so as a preliminary remark, madam vice-president - that i very much support your efforts in connection with the tragedy in the mediterranean and also the attempts to hinder and put an end to the gangs that are luring people onto their boats. i am grateful to mr danjean for his report, which i believe comes at an important time, in preparation for the european council in june. i have the impression, when i look at the discussions in some member states, when i talk to the diplomats, that they are not very ambitious. i do not see any clear commitment to preparing for permanent structural cooperation - that is a contractual mandate which has not yet been put into effect after five years - to bring about a coalition of the willing. and i think it's important that this is brought to the forefront and not left for another five years, and i would ask you to do something in this area and to make it more clear - with all the limitations necessary for the final decision. but even with the issues that are presented in so many details, with pooling and sharing, with so many collaborations, even national collaborations with common associations, we have to see that the link is not really there yet and that the real synergies cannot be created. this demand by nato for 2% sounds like a litany question in the context of the millennium development goals: it is not credible! we as european nations spend 186 billion euros on defence with very little return. and if we don't reach a common position here, we're wasting our taxpayers' money. and i think that needs to be expressed at the summit.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am speaking here today as a member of the committee on budgets. i too would like to see more european cooperation in foreign and security policy. but i fear that in future the member states will only be prepared to do so in exceptional cases. but i also fear that the member states will be happy to accept the offer of funding made by the kukan and tarand report in articles 26 and 27. the eu budget is chronically underfunded. every year the committee on budgets of this house struggles with a broad consensus to finance the civilian priorities of the european parliament. the european union's payment crisis has made the european union's humanitarian aid almost ineffective over the past two years. and in this situation, are we going to give the council a blank check to finance the common security and defence policy? i believe that the eu budget does not have the resources to do this, and that is simply unacceptable to the german social democrats.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the situation in hungary (2015/2700 ((rsp)). i welcome the prime minister of hungary, mr viktor orbán. welcome to the prime minister's office. ladies and gentlemen, i'll tell you how i want this meeting to go. i shall begin by giving the floor to the council and commission, in accordance with the usual procedure, to make a statement on the situation in hungary. i then give the floor to the chairman or chairmen of the political groups and to a representative of the non-attached members in a first round. i shall then give mr orbán the opportunity to speak in this debate. after that, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the usual debate. i have agreed with mr orbán that if he wants to speak again at the end of this debate - this can be made dependent on the course of the debate - he should signal this to me. i will then give the floor to him again, and then to the chairman of the political group on these remarks by mr orbán, if he wishes to speak a second time. the other rules remain the same, including the catch-the-eye procedure at the end of the normal debate.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, let me start my intervention today by recalling the basics. the european union is not only an economic and political union, providing its citizens with an opportunity of freedom of movement and a single market. it is also the union of shared fundamental values. these fundamental values are set out in the treaties and reflected in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. these rights, freedoms and principles are also enshrined in the european convention on human rights to which all eu member states are party. in this respect, all the institutions have their role, as defined in the treaties. parliament has an important and valued role, not least to call the attention of the commission and the council to specific situations. being the forum of european pluralistic democracy, parliament has always been particularly attached to the preservation of democratic values. the council has always valued your opinions. as you know, the council has not discussed the situation in hungary. nor has it agreed any position on the issue. however, i would like to recall that the presidency, and the council as a whole, attaches great importance to ensuring that eu fundamental values are fully respected throughout the union in all policies. promoting tolerance and diversity is the most effective response to the evolving human rights challenges or threats to fundamental freedoms. at the same time, let me express our gratitude to parliament for giving the hungarian authorities, as the party directly concerned, an opportunity to take part in the debate. the presidency is also grateful to the hungarian authorities for being with us today. i am not in a position to say more at this stage. the council will follow this debate closely and pay due attention to the views that will be expressed.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank, through you, the european parliament for putting this topic on the agenda, as two recent developments in hungary have given rise to important concerns. let me start with the debate launched by prime minister orbán on the reintroduction of the death penalty. president juncker and i have already made clear statements on this, and these represent the official position of the commission. article 2 of the eu charter of fundamental rights prohibits, explicitly and clearly, any person from being condemned to death or executed. in addition, the european court of human rights has ruled that the death penalty is a violation of the european convention on human rights. the abolition of the death penalty is a condition which states are required to meet in order to become members of the council of europe or of the european union. this is part of our common values. as far as the commission is concerned, there is no doubt that the reintroduction of capital punishment would be contrary to the eu’s fundamental values. a reintroduction of the death penalty by a member state would, therefore, lead to the application of article 7 of the treaty of the european union. the mechanisms of article 7 relate to the values referred to in article 2, including human dignity and respect for human rights. as you know, the treaties do not foresee suspending or withdrawing the membership of a member state of the european union. however, article 7 provides for a far-reaching sanction mechanism specifically designed to ensure respect for the fundamental values of article 2. more specifically on the situation in hungary, let me make the following comments. president juncker stated on 30 april that prime minister orbán should immediately clarify that it is not his intention to reintroduce the death penalty. if that were his intention, and i quote, ‘it would be a fight’. the commission has in the meantime understood that the hungarian government does not have concrete plans to take any steps to introduce the death penalty, and that prime minister orbán has assured you, president schulz, that the hungarian government will respect and honour all european treaties and legislation. i refer to the press release you gave president schulz on 30 april. however, if the hungarian government were to take steps to reintroduce the death penalty, let me underline that the commission is ready to use immediately all the means at its disposal to ensure that hungary, as well as any other member state, complies with its obligations under union law and respects the values of the union enshrined in article 2. we will not hesitate for one second in such a case. on the public consultation on immigration announced by the hungarian government – the second subject – let me make the following comments. in general, the commission considers that public consultation can be an important tool of governments and other public authorities to develop policies that can count on support of the population. however, and i repeat what i already stated earlier, a public consultation based on bias, on leading and even misleading questions, on prejudice about immigrants, can hardly be considered a fair and objective basis for designing sound policies. framing immigration in the context of terrorism, depicting migrants as a threat to jobs and the livelihood of people, is malicious and simply wrong. it will only feed misconceptions and prejudice. we cannot, and should not, close our eyes to the sometimes serious challenges posed by migration in our societies. but in doing so, we should never lose sight of our fundamental values and of the need to preserve a pluralistic and diverse society based on mutual respect and equal treatment of every single individual. the european union and its member states are developing common answers to the current challenges, as europe is based on mutual respect, solidarity and sincere cooperation. we need political leaders who are willing to explain eu policy to the citizens in an open, fair and balanced manner, and who will stand firm for joint and common european values. this is the only way we can make progress together in europe. the commission will continue to monitor the situation closely, and i thank the european parliament explicitly for its continued support in these important matters. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to start by thanking viktor orbán for being here. when we discuss hungary, the prime minister comes - that shows his willingness to exchange ideas, to be present, and also his respect for the european parliament. thank you for that. and i would like to say again, first of all, that six months ago we as the epp group asked to speak about the scandalous elections in romania, where ponta prevented hundreds of thousands of people from taking part in the presidential elections. the left in this house has said that we do not need to talk about this issue, that it is not important for europe. i would like to say that this is the fifth time that we are discussing hungarian issues in the presence of viktor orbán. and that shows me clearly: the epp is ready to discuss, but the left is blind to its own failings in the issues we have in europe. (applause from the centre) when we talk about hungary today, the first thing that comes to mind is something quite different from the questions we are obviously discussing, namely, for example, that hungary is the engine of growth in europe with an economic growth of 2.8%, that hungary is in a much better position than many left-wing countries in this european union with unemployment of 6.8%. and i remember that viktor orbán has been confirmed in office with more than 50% of his voters since 2010. in the recent european elections, fidesz got 51%. obviously, many on the left here do not agree with it, given the political situation in this country, which is showing strong support for viktor orbán. this is for the situation analysis in hungary. and now to the problems, the questions. we are discussing the death penalty today. for us as the epp group, it is part of the civilizing success of our continent, alongside democracy, the rule of law, the right to strike and many other points, that we have banned the death penalty and banished it from this continent. that is why a debate on the death penalty is harmful to us as the european union. we reject it, and we cannot accept reintroduction. and i thank viktor orbán for clarifying that he is not taking any initiatives in this direction. we would be doing europe a great disservice if we were to have this debate. the second thing we're discussing is how we're going to deal with citizen participation. firstly, it is positive that hungary is consulting its citizens; the commission has already made a number of proposals. but i too would like to take up the point raised by frans timmermans. if the wording says, mr prime minister, 'they in brussels and we in budapest', then that is a mood that is not good, and the epp does not support it either. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. but i'll say it again, to the left of the house: you can argue about the wording, but the things that viktor orbán is addressing and will be addressing today, we have to talk about. for example, the fact that the return of rejected asylum seekers in this european union does not work, that two-thirds of all applicants in europe have been rejected and that they need to be returned from this european union in order to implement law: this is a topic that viktor orbán rightly addresses. and he is also right to say that it cannot be that, as in my home region of bavaria, for example, one of the highest numbers of refugees from candidate countries to the european union is now coming from the balkans, with which we are currently negotiating accession. it cannot be right that asylum seekers come to europe from countries with which we are negotiating accession. we must also address these questions, dear party friends and colleagues. and then you should listen to viktor orbán, not in the wording, but in the substance.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i do not understand the background to the question, because there are many such voices throughout europe, unfortunately in many areas, including in the socialist group and in other political families in europe. what we are discussing today is the question of how we deal with hungary. i have to tell you that hungary is one of the leading countries economically, and it is a country where the people are obviously satisfied with their government, otherwise it would not have received so much support in democratic elections. these are the facts.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. i cannot accept that expression, mrs gáll-pelcz, in any way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is almost all said to the horror that has gone through the whole european union on the occasion of the new news from hungary. i have to say that i couldn't believe it at first, and when i was following the discussion about the death penalty in hungary, i wondered if it would actually be possible that today, in 2015, a european government leader would be willing to reintroduce the death penalty: this is a question that i would like to ask you seriously. because that would be, as sophia and others have said, the declared end of membership in the european union. the second topic was this questionnaire on refugee policy. the style of this questionnaire, the language of this questionnaire -- this is not really a contribution to solving this big refugee problem that the european union has to tackle together, but this is simply a contribution to inciting a nation, not to solve, but to incite. in germany, the term "well poisoning" was coined for this. with both debates, mr orbán, you have abandoned the fundamental values and rights of the european union. that is why we are not just talking about viktor orbán and hungary, but about ourselves. what does it mean when member states look for a distance from basic values? the european union is a great example of the kind of cooperation that can be achieved by the european union. it is simply inconceivable that the european union project can function without these fundamental rights being fully respected. a policy of self-interest, in which we put the economy first and otherwise nationalist tendencies dominate, would in my view very quickly lead to the end of the european union. i think it is important that the european union does not squeeze in this conflict as the latvian presidency of the council , but that the european union, based on the disputes that viviane reding had with several member states, not only with hungary, about freedom of the press, based on the tavares report, agrees on the mechanisms we need to enforce not only our robust interests in budgetary matters and stability, but also how we can enforce in europe that the values we have established and which mark the end of barbarism in europe can be guaranteed to our citizens in the long term. we've seen it recently: demonstration rights in spain i thought of a police state when i read about it. i've read about the security laws in france. that shocked me. it is high time that we put ourselves in a position to defend our values and the right to the inside. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. if you follow the discussion in germany, you will see that this is a very important issue, and all these crimes that happen there are prosecuted according to law and order. and at the same time germany is currently pursuing an offensive refugee policy and is supporting the idea of quotas too late, i think, but germany supports this position. let me say something about this: especially in refugee policy, in dealing with europeans ... (the president cut the speaker off)
there are certainly no divine commands in the eu treaties, mr prime minister. but i know a divine commandment, which is: thou shalt not kill! (applause from the centre)
that concludes the catch-the-eye procedure. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure) mr orbán, would you like to speak again? i offered you this if you wanted it. there you go.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is ultimately up to the citizens of hungary to decide whether or not they want to follow the ideas that viktor orbán is presenting at the moment. i believe - because i have also studied a little hungarian history - that the hungarians still know why they chose european freedom and against what is now celebrating a happy beginning in the debate, against this nationalism. but it must be a matter of concern to all of us - and i would like to join mr weber in this - that something is happening in this catalogue of questions which is really dangerous for europe. the european parliament has been asked to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will take a decision on it. we should be able to get rid of it together in the european union in 2015. this is true for hungary, but it is also true for many other countries where we have similar problems.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr orbán, i would like to disagree with you. none of us here criticizes hungary as a country. we are not criticizing the population of any member state. what we are criticizing is your politics, your statements, your personality, your behaviour, the game you are playing here for the second time. i have the impression that you are coming here because you want to use the european parliament again to send the message home: i, the prime minister, am defending you against these european institutions and against these members who have dared to criticize me. we're criticizing you, not the citizens of your country. we want the citizens of your country to be able to decide on their membership, their lives and their future in the same way that we all have and will. we want the citizens of hungary to be able to show the same solidarity with refugees as we can. but we do not want you to present questionnaires which are cynical in nature. and what you've done here is pure cynicism. i'm sorry, it's pure cynicism, it has nothing to do with democracy. i would like to say today that we continue to reject these positions. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you for the discussion and also for the exchange and i must say again that the left in many areas criticizes what is to be criticized - which i also did as an epp representative - but again it is immoderate. if mrs harms compares this with nazi methods, if mr verhofstadt here assumes a dull nationalism, then it is being exaggerated. and then mrs zimmer shoots the bird off the cliff by saying that the orbán debate must be stopped. yes, who asked for the debate? it was your group that asked for this. it is a sign that everything on the table that is critical is now out of proportion. we have heard little today about the actual facts that viktor orbán has raised in the migration debate, that hungary is a model in the question of welcoming migrants to europe. many of the member states who have spoken here, from the left, could cut off a slice of hungary. we haven't heard anything about that. but, mr prime minister, mr viktor orbán, i must make one thing very clear on the question of the principles of the european union: in europe, we can talk about anything, but freedom of speech always comes with responsibility. it's always a part of the same thing. and if we take part in the debate, it must be clear that we are also responsible for what has been achieved civilisationally on this continent, namely that the state does not murder and does not kill. this principle must be discussed very responsibly by everyone, and we as european politicians must defend it.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place in june. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
ladies and gentlemen, i have an announcement to make. the following candidates have been proposed for the post of vice-president of the european parliament, which has become vacant following the resignation of mr olli rehn, in accordance with rule 15 of the rules of procedure: the efdd group proposes that mr fabio massimo castaldo should be appointed. the alde group proposes that mrs anneli jäätteenmäki be appointed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 20 may, at 12 noon.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is estimated that some $1.6 trillion is laundered each year. this is almost 3% of the annual economic output. in the eu alone, €1 trillion is lost every year to tax fraud and tax avoidance - more than the eu budget over seven years. we must therefore take the lead as the european union, as the european parliament, in the fight against money laundering and tax evasion. it was therefore of the utmost importance and urgency to revise the old, third anti-money laundering directive of 2005. we social democrats have always constructively supported the eu commission's proposals in the fourth anti-money laundering directive and the accompanying regulation on the transmission of information on the principal in money transfers and have worked towards the timely introduction of the new eu anti-money laundering legislation. both legislative acts follow a risk-based approach at european level, introducing enhanced due diligence for areas with a high risk of money laundering. this risk-based approach is also reflected in the scope of the directive. in future, casinos and gambling operators will also be covered. the key to combating money laundering and terrorist financing, however, is transparency, and thus the identification of the beneficial owners and the real beneficiaries behind the interlocking, often opaque, corporate structures and letterbox companies. we therefore consider it a great success in the fight against money laundering that the european parliament, under pressure from us social democrats and others, has been able to enforce central public registers of companies containing detailed information on the beneficial owners of companies, trusts, foundations and holding companies. because transparency is the best weapon against criminal machinations in secret. the introduction of these registers was not automatic, however, as they go far beyond the original commission proposal. the member states in the council also opposed it for a long time. but the european parliament was finally able to assert itself with this central demand. these registers are freely accessible to all obliged parties, such as lawyers, notaries, banks and financial authorities, as well as to anyone who can demonstrate a legitimate interest, such as journalists. so far, so good. i'm going to go. however, we social democrats would have liked to see an eu-wide linking of these national registers not put on hold and examined for another four years, but launched immediately. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. such a transparency offensive would expose shady practices and make the fight against money laundering, tax evasion and tax havens even more effective. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft law on the fight against money laundering. the obliged parties shall exercise due diligence in their dealings with states included in this list. contrary to the council's wishes, parliament is involved in the drawing up of this list, which is updated every three months, by means of delegated acts. we wish we could have continued on some points. but it remains to be concluded that the establishment of a central public register has enabled us to achieve our primary objective. this, together with other achievements, is a success of the directive. but there is still a lot of unfinished business, and so we have work to do in the next five years.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are talking today about improved anti-money laundering measures. the reasons are reasonable: counter-terrorism, black-market labor, tax evasion. but as we speak of this, another topic is slowly emerging on the horizon, and that is the abolition of cash altogether. shouldn't we make all payments cashless so they're transparent in the fight against terrorism? and then, shouldn't we eventually abolish and ban cash? the german economist peter bofinger and the chief economist of citibank, willem buiter, are already calling for this, although for different reasons. should the government and its officials be able to read our entire lives in our bank statements? the state would know which bar i drink my beer in and when i took a cab home at night. is anonymity a protection for terrorists and criminals, or is anonymity a fundamental right of freedom for us citizens? should the use of freedom by some to commit crimes cause us all to lose that freedom? if you ask me, never. let's get the cash!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. every year, between 615 billion and 1.5 trillion euros of money is laundered worldwide. criminals and terrorists use money laundering to make assets appear legitimate. these include letterbox companies, offshore accounts and often difficult-to-understand online manipulation. these massive threats to our entire way of life are undermining the soundness and stability of credit institutions, and undermining confidence in the entire financial system. national action is not enough to provide effective countermeasures. eu legislation needs to take account of international standards and new technological developments in order to respond efficiently. we need the public central register to provide the competent authorities and reporting agencies with information on the beneficial ownership of companies. the eu commission should carry out a supranational risk assessment. there is also a need for full traceability of money transfers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data protection rules are fully applied. of course, personal data may not be used for any commercial purpose. international cooperation and coordination are therefore of paramount importance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the whole of the european union. thank you very much, krišjānis kariņš and the other reporters. you did a great job!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would also like to thank all those involved for their cooperation and conclude by saying that on the whole we can be satisfied with the compromise reached, in particular with the introduction of the public central registers, which contain all the information on the beneficial owners behind opaque company structures. but we must also be aware that the fight against money laundering and fraud must be constantly renewed, because the methods of money launderers are constantly evolving. we must therefore act and move forward with ambition, not just reacting, but also going beyond tomorrow, beyond the vote. the compromise reached with the council is therefore another important step, but others must follow in the future. we must be vigilant to ensure that the requirements of the new eu money laundering directive are effectively implemented and that member states do not unnecessarily complicate or impede access to the central registers for persons with a legitimate interest. we must also facilitate cooperation between national investigators by linking up national registers as quickly as possible. it is difficult to understand why we should wait four years to link the national registers, when the information is theoretically available, but this prevents the exchange of information. i believe that we must all work together here, because the fight against money laundering and fraud knows no borders and must be fought at european and global level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are talking today about maternity protection and what the eu could do if the council were to play its part, which it is not doing. but still, in principle, it is good, or better, perfectly natural that expectant mothers who have to go to work should be protected. of course they have to! i am opposed to the commission's approach for two reasons. firstly, the directive always considers the mother-to-be to be a worker. the eu has always considered pregnancy as a labour market problem. this is a deeply marxist approach: motherhood as something detrimental to the call of female labour. but motherhood is not a burden on the economy, it is an opportunity - an opportunity for children, for the family, for society and, ultimately, for the economy. in short, motherhood makes business possible. but secondly, the eu is not responsible for children and families, it does not have the competence to regulate them. only the member states can do that. i wish they would.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also think it is very good to modernise family policy and to promote the participation of fathers. however, maternity protection is occupational health protection! and this is all about protecting the mother and the child, before and after birth. i think that simply putting an unwelcome proposal from the european parliament to rest is putting mothers and children at risk and putting women at a disadvantage in society and in the labour market. the minimum standards for maternity protection set by the international labour organisation must also apply to europe. we need a common high level of protection for all women in europe and also social security. with improved maternity protection, europe can make a clear sign of progress in social and labour law.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. all the contributions except the one from the czech republic were and are a slap in the face to every mother, some fathers a brazenness! what is work? in crèches, kindergartens, or homes, people are paid for services that mothers usually provide for free. maternity leave is not a vacation. it's like any other place. a parental allowance, a parental wage. that would create real freedom of choice. a new beginning council and commission, have the courage to make a real new start! parental leave is work time, not vacation time. a parental benefit is money that stays in the region. i am in favour of a european family strategy. employers should not see parental leave as a loss. it is a matter for the european parliament. because when parents get a salary, it is employment, and it belongs to the committee on employment and social affairs. mothers parents are our most important workforce in our demographic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. when we talk about people with disabilities, we're talking about people with different talents and needs. for too long, we have looked at their shortcomings and not really involved them in policy deliberations and decisions. and we are actually still a long way from true inclusion. the fact is that the poverty rate of people with disabilities is far above average, only one in two is in employment and only one in three young people with disabilities is in school. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is no secret that the main means of achieving self-determination and social participation is integration into the labour market. in germany, more than 111 000 businesses employ disabled people, and this is a first success. these companies have understood that both sides can benefit from this. so in the software industry, for example, they're very successful in employing people who are autistic, because their analytical skills are needed and encouraged. member states need to be much more committed to promoting inclusion in all areas of society. i ask the commission, and i expect it, to finally come forward with a binding proposal on how to include people with disabilities and impairments through good regulation in all the legislative procedures which affect them, so that they can really get on in life.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is now more than four years since the european union ratified the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the european union has ratified the first international treaty on human rights, which it has signed as an independent party. it is designed to ensure that people with disabilities are treated equally in the exercise of their rights and are no longer treated as sick people but rather as equal human beings. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption by the end of the year. our society must have room for all people, and especially for the 80 million people living with disabilities in the eu. it must be ensured that they have access to and the right to education and training, adequate health care, employment, social protection, equality and participation, and access to buildings, transport and information, as well as the right to lead an independent life in society, like all other people. the current un review of the eu strategy is an important moment which also allows us to present, evaluate and revise the current rules, measures and procedures. the first steps have been taken. let us take the next steps together.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the european agenda on migration (2015/2648 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, commissioners, honourable members, there is a time for words and there is a time for deeds. i am very proud that today i can speak about concrete actions the european council and the council have taken recently in response to the dramatic loss of lives of those seeking shelter in europe, and i am sure that the commission will complement that by presenting its view. let me recall that, at its special meeting of 23 april 2015, the european council tasked the presidency and the commission with ensuring appropriate follow-up to the orientations for tackling this issue and with reporting back to the european council in june. the presidency and the council indeed ensured a swift follow-up. already by the end of april we prepared, together with the commission and the european external action service, a comprehensive document – a roadmap for the orientations given by the european council. the commission, too, did not hesitate. last week, it presented the expected european agenda on migration, earlier than initially planned. i would like to thank the commission for the comprehensive and immediate action. the roadmap and the agenda contain a number of proposals with a view to strengthening the european presence at sea, fighting traffickers, preventing illegal migration flows and reinforcing internal solidarity and responsibility. as an immediate action, in order to prevent further loss of lives at sea, a tripling of the resources allocated to frontex has been recognised as a matter of priority. hence, tomorrow, in the committee on budgets, the presidency will start its first examination of the commission’s proposal for budgetary amendments. in order to disrupt trafficking networks, special attention in the council is devoted to stepping up eu efforts in this field. let me recall that this monday at the joint meeting of foreign affairs and defence ministers, the council decided to establish an eu military operation – eunavfor med – as a part of a comprehensive approach to solving the migration crisis in the mediterranean. the operation aims at breaking the ‘business model’ of human smugglers and traffickers in the mediterranean. in the medium and long term, we will focus on measures aimed at stopping illegal migration flows. preventive and comprehensive cooperation with countries of origin and transit, development cooperation, and strengthening of eu delegations in third countries, are matters of particular importance. the necessity to deal with the root causes of the migration flows was emphasised at the joint meeting of foreign affairs and defence ministers this monday. efficient response to the migration-related challenges is an issue of highest priority for the council. yesterday, the general affairs council held a thorough discussion on the follow-up to the special meeting of the european council, and a first exchange of views on the european agenda for migration. the issue of broadening the development-migration linkage will be addressed during the meeting of eu development ministers on 26 may. the justice and home affairs council will continue this debate and examine the migration agenda on 16 june. the policy debate covering both immediate and mid-term measures would serve as a contribution to the debate of the heads of state or government in the june european council. the presidency takes this task very seriously and stands ready to facilitate work in the council. i can only underline that both the roadmap and the european agenda on migration serve as a very important contribution to the current discussion on the eu migratory policy launched by the european council. before concluding, let me assure you that the council and the european parliament share the same objectives: fair and robust migration policy, assuming responsibilities and showing solidarity. a european solution is necessary, based on solidarity and responsibility, and combining internal and external policies. all contributions are therefore welcome and deserve thorough examination. this is what we will do in the coming weeks. i would like to conclude by noting that this is at least the fifth time under our presidency that we have had a migration-related debate at the plenary. this is clear evidence of the prominent place this issue occupies in our agenda.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, following the terrible loss of life in the mediterranean last month, the european council stood for a minute’s silence. leaders made a firm commitment to solidarity among member states to address the common migratory challenges europe faces. the european agenda on migration is about turning words into action. it provides for the measures that are urgently needed to deal with a crisis in the mediterranean and to build a structured response that can be used in cases of extreme pressure on other parts of our shared external border. the input and support this house gave us in your resolution last month was very important to us in finalising the agenda. we have reacted with more funding and resources for triton to help it manage borders and save lives. we are taking measures to disrupt the brutal people-smuggling trade and we are proposing hotspot teams to give support on the ground in member states where the pressure is worse, to help identify, register and fingerprint incoming migrants. the commission agrees with this house that we must do more to make a reality of the commitment to solidarity and to open up legal channels for those who are most in need of international protection. next week, the commission will propose a temporary relocation mechanism by triggering the emergency clause in article 78 of the treaty to help relieve the immediate and exceptional pressure on frontline countries. this parliament will be formally consulted and we count on your support, and later on we will come back to you to co-decide a standing mechanism for relocation that is automatically triggered whenever there are these extreme crisis situations. let me underline that this is not about migration in general; it is about extreme crisis situations that demand a clear response. under the relocation scheme, people of identified nationalities who are most desperately in need of sanctuary will be distributed to other member states who will then take care of their reception and asylum processing. the commission has tabled a distribution key showing what this intra-eu solidarity means in concrete terms for each member state and the union as a whole. in parallel, we want to create safe and legal channels for those who really need protection to get to europe without risking abuse, exploitation and their very lives in the hands of smugglers. we are therefore proposing a humanitarian resettlement scheme working with unhcr. we are putting an extra eur 50 million into the scheme, which should result in resettling an additional 20 000 people into the eu over two years. beyond the immediate crisis we are setting out a longer-term strategy to address the more fundamental issues of migration in a comprehensive way. these are complex matters and we need to act on all aspects if we want to be effective. that means tackling irregular migration at its source and all along the routes. it means securing our borders and saving lives, but it also has to mean applying our common asylum rules properly. solidarity can be asked if responsibility is at the same time also taken by all member states. everyone who needs sanctuary should find it in europe, but those who have no justified claim should be quickly identified and quickly returned to their home country. effective action on return and limiting the scope for abuse are crucial for the credibility and societal acceptance of migration policy. all too often in our countries people who deserve asylum because they flee war or prosecution are seen as profiteers because we have not been effective enough in having people who do not deserve asylum return to their countries of origin and this needs to change. getting these rules working correctly is also a necessary precondition for the serious debate we need to have on the legal migration europe will need in the future. we will only get citizen support for legal migration if we get all the aspects of a comprehensive migration policy working together. if our people do not trust our asylum policy they will not trust a policy of legal migration. if they do trust our asylum policy because it is effective, they will be more relaxed about the necessity and possibilities of legal migration. this european agenda on migration mobilises all the tools at the eu’s disposal. our internal policies and our various european agencies should work together. but also, development policy needs to be put in place to address the root causes of migration, as well as a coherent and united foreign policy to bring migration management onto the agenda in our relations with key third countries. third countries sometimes do not do what they need to do in taking back their nationals who do not have the right to asylum. it is a holistic agenda; an example of the benefits of the new working methods under the juncker commission. these are bold proposals and they are already attracting debate, including among the member states. but in our view, it is not acceptable for people to say ‘yes, we want you to stop people from drowning’, but at the same time stay silent on where these people should go once they have been rescued. what the commission is doing today is putting into practice the commitment the european council made last month: more responsibility and effective application of our common rules to prevent abuses, going hand—in—hand with more solidarity. i know these are challenging proposals; i know they will prompt debate and controversy in member states, but it is really not acceptable for people around the eu to say ‘stop the drowning’, and at the same time, to say ‘but do not bring the people here’. we are setting out today a set of targeted and balanced measures and we will work closely with this parliament and each of our member states to match words with action.
member of the commission.– mr president, after years in which we have seen migrants dying on our doorstep and in which we have seen the trust of our citizens in the european institutions diminish, it was time to be visionary, to be bold. it was time for the commission to fulfil its fundamental role as the engine of european integration, taking action on the big challenges of our times. migration is one of these big challenges. last year, as members know, over 620 000 people asked for protection in europe. the numbers for 2015 show that even that peak may be mild in comparison to the one we will record this year. seventy thousand asylum applications have already been lodged every month in the european union since the beginning of 2015. more than 80 000 migrants have reached our shores. let me be clear: this is not due to any ‘pull factor’. this is because our immediate neighbourhood is on fire. it is because we are living in a time of instability and europe is seen as a refuge in times of crisis. it is time we started being responsible about it, recognising that we need to start acting together in europe. the agenda we have adopted is more ambitious than that. we are proposing to act together on the global stage because managing migration is a shared responsibility across the world. the approval of a common security and defence policy mission in the mediterranean on monday by the council and the efforts of federica mogherini to get the united nations to pass a resolution that will allow europe to take decisive actions against the criminal networks is a perfect example of this global approach, of this global vision. this effort is part of the immediate response that the european agenda on migration suggests in order to deal with the pressure in the mediterranean and to give an immediate and solid follow-up to the deliberations of this parliament and of the heads of state and government. we are doing so by expanding our capacity to save lives through the tripling of frontex–led joint operations triton and poseidon and by adopting an action plan to fight migrant smuggling in order to respond to two fundamental, understandable and simple questions that we felt remained open. the first question is: ‘what do we do with those we rescue?’ we thought it was time to give a true european response to such fundamental questions, one where every member state would do its fair share in order to promote the fundamental values of humanity and solidarity on which the european union is built. this is why, next week, the commission will propose the triggering of article 78(3) of the treaty, an emergency mechanism that was conceived precisely for situations such as those we are facing today: ‘a sudden inflow of nationals of third countries’. the mechanism will allow the transfer of those who are in clear need of protection from the frontline states towards the other member states. in the past few days, since the adoption of the agenda, i have heard many complaining that this system is far too oriented to the mediterranean. let me be very clear: what we are building today is not only an emergency response to the current pressure, but it is also an emergency mechanism to be applied in the future wherever pressure emerges. those who help today will be those who may need help tomorrow. i think that this is what solidarity truly means in practice. the second question is: ‘what do we do with those that today use smugglers in order to seek the protection they deserve?’ if we are really serious about the fight against the smugglers, to the point of going to the united nations security council, we need to be equally serious in opening alternative and legal avenues to come to europe. again, this is an effort where europe needs to act as one, with a common and consistent approach. this is why the commission has proposed a resettlement scheme to transfer 20 000 refugees to europe from third countries, showing much needed solidarity with our neighbours which are already bearing the brunt of the crisis in syria and libya. the commission will make available eur 50 million in order to support the member states. these two mechanisms will be based on a distribution key developed according to objective and clear criteria. i am ready to discuss the criteria retained but, let us be clear, we should not hide behind this discussion to do nothing. beyond the immediate actions, the european agenda on migration also responds to the more fundamental challenges that european society faces. it is an agenda that looks at the medium to long term, in order to lead the way towards a truly common european migration policy in the european union. in line with the priorities identified by president juncker in his political guidelines we have built around four key pillars. firstly, strengthening our capacity to fight irregular migration: in order to do that the commission will adopt an action plan on smuggling next week and will reinforce the role of frontex in return operations. secondly, protecting migrants in need of international protection: the commission will promote and monitor the full implementation of the common european asylum system and will take action to fight abuses. thirdly, strengthening the shared management of our external borders: frontex will be reinforced and more coherent standards will be developed. fourthly, the european union’s demographic and skill needs mean that legal migration will be a necessary part of our future. so the commission intends to develop a new policy on legal migration starting with revision of the blue card directive. the principle is very simple. europe will extend a helping hand to those in need and will strive to attract those we need, but this will be balanced by strong and targeted action for those who try to abuse our system. as i said, our objective is to give a comprehensive response and one that also encompasses the enormous demographic challenges europe faces. while the working age population in the european union will decline by 17.5 million, foreign skilled workers who can complement our own will be important to support europe’s economic development. the agenda is about concrete actions and initiatives, which are realistic and can be implemented if we all take part consistently in this shared effort. to do this, i need the support of this house, which has always been in the forefront in advocating true and effective solidarity. more than ensuring that the current system delivers its full potential, the agenda finally launches parallel reflections for deepening our future european cooperation in the field of migration. this includes ideas such as the establishment of a european single asylum decision-making process or a european border guards system. i look forward to hearing your reactions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioners, members of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! before i get into the subject, i would like to take a minute of my speaking time and take a brief look back at the british elections. i am glad that david cameron has won a good election with his approach to fiscal consolidation and also with his approach to reform. but i would like to welcome the loser of the elections, mr farage. i'd like to welcome back the great loser of the british election. i would like to stress that he has now found something positive about europe, namely the fact that europe obviously has a much better electoral system than britain. because if europe had no proportional representation, it would have no jobs today - let's face it - because its british voters did not vote for it. and i maintain that mr. farage has lost all credibility. he has announced that if the british voters do not vote for him, he will resign as party leader. he said he's resigning and will not continue in office. you don't have to justify this by saying that your great party leadership has denied you the right to continue. the fact is, mr farage, you are not keeping your campaign promises. you're still here, you're still the leader of the party, and you've broken an important election promise. welcome back, and it's good that you're the big loser of the election. it is worthwhile, ladies and gentlemen, to sacrifice a minute of speaking time for this. but now we are talking about the migration debate, and i would like to thank the commission - frans timmermans, mr avramopoulos and our president, mr jean-claude juncker - because the proposals on the table give us an overall picture of how we can tackle the great challenge of migration. the central question, even if we take the council debates into account, is first of all: how do the citizens see this question? when citizens see pictures of the mediterranean sea on television every evening - in britain, in poland, in germany, in spain - how do they see it? when people see the images on television, they have a feeling that they are saying, "is this something that concerns me as a briton, as a pole, as an austrian? and i'm sure most people in europe say, "yes, these images don't leave me cold, they do concern me". and when you consider that, it is also clear that we need european responses, that we europeans are called upon to tackle this challenge together. we welcome the solidarity mechanism, particularly with regard to the unhcr, we welcome the criteria that have been considered. i would like to say that there are still very serious debates and many discussions in my group on the question of the design of the solidarity mechanism. but the basic approach is welcome. we have to put the smugglers out of business. there are specific proposals for this. the military option must also remain on the table. we welcome the partnership with the countries of origin: it is good that we are meeting in malta to talk at the joint summit with the partner countries. and we also welcome the fact that it is becoming clear that we must also enforce the law. i would like to thank the two commissioners in particular for mentioning that we must also repatriate those who have just been rejected in the rule of law procedure, and that we must also enforce the law in the european union. otherwise, we may lose the citizens' confidence in the rule of law in the long term. and i would add that in some countries of the european union, the refugees from the balkans - that is, from outside europe - are a relevant group of refugees. that too must be addressed. it is difficult to explain why refugees come from countries with which we are negotiating accession to the european union and seek asylum. that is why we must also address these more difficult issues. thank you to the commission. many of the european parliament's topics were taken up. the close partnership is a sign of that, and i thank you for it. and now for the council: there we have a lot of naysayers, of doubters, of people who now know again what all does not work. it is a petty thing that we are experiencing there, namely, only looking at our own figures, at our own personal situation, and unfortunately not god's view of the common task that lies ahead of us. i hope that the european council in june will be able to overcome this, that we will really have a european perspective in the european council, that the commission's proposals will be taken into account and that the will to give the answers together will then be seen. i would like to appeal to the media not to say, when these statements come from the council, that europe has failed because there is a clear will here in the european parliament, because there is a clear will in the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are ready to continue the good work which the commission has now put forward, and i would ask the commission to be ambitious in its proposals ... (disturbance) i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by simply telling the commission once again that we have its back because the proposal is a good one. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
ladies and gentlemen, i'd ask you to restrain yourself a bit. i'm also very generous with your speaking time. if you exceed the speaking time, mrs ferrara for example, i will not intervene with you. i didn't do that yesterday either. i also gave you more time to speak yesterday. so you should be a little bit more fair about this.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i can understand the emotion, as i said. i suggested that you should thank mr farage personally and also say that europe has such a great electoral system. compared to the uk, you have a job here, paid for by european taxpayers. you should thank me before you come here and say that europe is so good. and the second, i'm simply concerned about the fact that my colleague farage has announced that he will resign as party leader if he loses. that was the thesis that was in the room. and he's sitting here as party chairman. in this respect, mr farage's credibility has been destroyed.
ladies and gentlemen, the process we have just witnessed is interesting. the ecr group is using the instrument of the interim questions to continue a part of the british election campaign and at the same time to extend its own speaking time a little. we did not introduce the instrument for that. so you can assume that i can't accept every blue card, every intermission here. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i will therefore be considering exactly how we are going to use this instrument in the future.
mr. courthouse! you can answer on behalf of all members, because the question was addressed to all members. take advantage of this unique opportunity!
i'll take that. but i'm grateful, mr. glezos, that you criticize me, i'm blind in my left eye. otherwise i'll always be criticized, i'd be blind in my right eye. so that's balanced out.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not let me start with george orwell's vision. winston smith, orwell's hero, begins his secret diary on april 4, 1984: "last night in the cinema", the first entry is, "loud war films; a very good one about a refugee ship being bombed somewhere in the mediterranean; the audience is delighted. now, i don't suppose that anyone in this room has enjoyed this drama on the mediterranean. but fiction can be turned into reality. the shelling or sinking of refugee boats as part of the overall package involves at least - and this must be clearly stated - so-called collateral damage, namely the death of people - refugees, boat captains and also members of the armed forces involved. i would also like to mention the criticism of the member states' behaviour. the summit of heads of government laid the foundations and the framework for what we are discussing today. and when the commission speaks of realistic, enforceable measures, its realism is shaped and oriented by the behaviour of the member states. and that is the crux of the matter. in the name of good faith: the package presented does not change the perspective on the plight of refugees. it continues to deal with the refugee question primarily from a security and economic point of view. the fundamental question that arises is: what do we mean by security? can security really be achieved only if we seal our own borders and close europe? the package and the agreement of the foreign and defence ministers are aimed primarily at repressive measures against those involved. but repression that destroys the living conditions of people does not make them safer, it makes them less safe. they continue to lure people into the clutches of terrorists and fail to protect them from them. we are not going to take away the business base of organized smuggling by military action. the refugee problem remains. and so the question i have is, why are we not shouting when it comes to, say, cutting the world food programme? why do we not cry out when we see how many refugee camps outside the european union are full of people living in conditions of the most degrading kind? the refugee problem, as i said, remains. we are merely pushing it out of our view and our perspective from the mediterranean beyond the libyan border. and whoever has seen that 190 dead were found behind the libyan border in the last few weeks alone, and whoever has seen the pictures of the refugee reception camps, simply has to ask the question: what are we really doing, and are we willing to approach the refugee problem in a completely different way, namely for humanitarian reasons first and foremost? are we willing to accept that we have to change ourselves, our lives, our standards, to really offer people the help they need? i can't see that yet! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam zimmer, do you not think it is highly dubious to make the claim, which is definitely nothing but untruth, that there is an intention to shoot and bomb refugee boats and to accept the deaths and collateral damage of refugees and boatmen? the fight is for traffickers, and you know it. i would ask you to stick to the truth and not to speak about something that neither the european commission's missions abroad nor any member state intends to do.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mrs hohlmeier, i did not say that the text says that the people themselves will be targeted. but you know very well that when armed forces are deployed, when weapons and military personnel are used and fired upon and when boats are destroyed, there is a huge risk that people will also die. you will not find anywhere in the world a form of military intervention in which there is not so-called collateral damage, in which people die. i would ask you to take note of this: there will be no clean intervention in the sense that you speak of!
ladies and gentlemen, before i give the floor to mrs hohlmeier, i should like to say again that we have introduced this blue card instrument in order to be able to take a more animated but also more factual approach to the debate. if these blue cards mean that, firstly, our debates are usually extended by half an hour and the sitting presidents are then accused of not keeping their appointed times, and secondly, if they are used to extend speaking time or to make any personal statements, then they are not useful. i am sure that i will be discussing with the bureau how we can prevent this abuse of this instrument.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i welcome the commission's agenda on migration. firstly, it makes sense to have a crisis mechanism that takes place in times of crisis. dublin only makes sense if we have peaceful times, if there are few migrants and if a member state is not overburdened. from the moment a member state is confronted with a mass influx, there must be a functioning crisis mechanism and, therefore, a correspondingly sensible distribution mechanism. secondly, i welcome the fact that legal channels such as resettlement, humanitarian visas and temporary status are not only being considered, but are also being strengthened. because if you take the fight against traffickers seriously - and i think everyone in this house should be in favour of fighting traffickers, because they are not friends of refugees, but often criminals who buy their deaths, who torture them, who kill them, who use them for organ trafficking, who use them for all the evils that no one can advocate - if you take the fight against traffickers seriously, which i very much advocate, as well as a targeted and targeted military action, then that also means that we as the european union have to contribute to facilitating and improving the refugee situation. but we also need an efficient return programme in case someone abuses our right of asylum or is in the countries illegally and a member state alone may not have the power to bring these people back but needs the support of the european union. i would like to make one criticism very clear, however, and that concerns the staff, the staff's wishes. the fact that three people are being added to europol and four to easo cannot be considered as a serious contribution to a european asylum programme and a solution to the refugee situation. i am sorry, commissioner, but these two items are simply a joke!
mr president, i would just like to remind us of what we are actually talking about here. approximately 2 000 people have died this year alone in the mediterranean, and to single out just one example of a conflict, syria has already produced more than four million refugees living outside syria in camps for four years in unbearable conditions. that is the situation we are talking about. and what do we do? we argue about 20 000 resettlement places with a ‘yes or no’ and about quotas with a ‘yes or no’. the only thing governments seem to be agreeing on is that they want to send their armies out against smugglers – as if that would help. the only thing that helps against smugglers is to open safe and legal ways of entry for refugees. mr avramopoulos, you were rightly calling for that. but are we then going to stop at 20 000 resettlement places? is that really all? i think we need to go far beyond that. regarding relocation: yes, it is absolutely right to have now a short-term crisis mechanism, but we should not stop there. we need to thoroughly reform the dublin regulation, because if a system does not work when it is really needed then it is high time to think about something else. solidarity should not remain an empty word here. we need solidarity amongst member states, but also with those people who are really in need of protection. mr timmermans also rightly said that we need to increase acceptance; but for that i think we need governments to really work for that acceptance and to argue for that acceptance, and not claim that people fleeing from war and persecution are a problem that you can send the army against and that this is going to be the solution to it all.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we read earlier this week in the leading german daily die welt: "uncontrolled immigration is not a human right, but leads to an undeclared civil war". i ask the commissioners here today: what are you doing about your policy, about your migration agenda? the european parliament has a duty to protect europe, to defend europe, to defend the social achievements of this continent. instead, i'm getting the impression that they're organizing cruises to hell. because it is only because you tolerate the migration via lampedusa, organized by criminals, that people have started on the road to hell in the first place. mr timmermans, if you want a humanitarian resettlement programme, if mr avramopoulos says that the comprehensive answer is legal migration, then i wonder what you are trying to achieve with this. do you want to bring more cheap human slaves to europe instead of helping people where they come from so that they can have a future and a perspective in their own country?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. how are we going to deal with the refugees in the mediterranean? the member states' response so far: combating traffickers, including by military means. i'm opposed to military action. the fight against criminal traffickers remains the right one. but with no safe routes to europe for people fleeing war and persecution, the message is: stay out of europe! it is cynical, for example, that our countries, on the one hand, warn that isis terrorists could commit brutal crimes here, and on the other hand, refuse to take in people who are fleeing from these crimes. the solidarity of all member states is needed now to welcome people and integrate them into our societies. no, we can't take in all the people who want to come to europe and work here. we must therefore also start with the causes of flight. the commission has also proposed that 0.7% of gdp be used for development aid. but only five of our member states are achieving this. other policy areas are also on the agenda. i would like to see more international cooperation here. and finally, in future all our member states will need immigration into labour markets, in all skill areas. it is therefore high time that we form a european immigration policy. the commission proposal is a first step in the right direction. but now the member states must act.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm scared sometimes in this debate. one says, "the quotas alone don't help, that's why they can't come". the other says, "taking action against the smugglers alone won't help, so we'd better not do it". everyone excuses it by saying that one thing alone doesn't work, that the other shouldn't be done. i think everything has to be done. we must have a fair distribution, we must deal with the smugglers, we must rebuild the state of libya, we must help sub-saharan africa. everything has to be done together, and you can't excuse one thing with another. the british say, "we want to shoot at boats, so we don't need quotas". i am against le pen and others and for the quota because our own people must finally be clear that we are making a fair distribution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's the crucial point. let's get this straight.
as for the catch-the-eye procedure, i'm happy to inform you that 25 colleagues have already signed up. it's going to be impossible to call everyone. i will try to be as balanced as possible, but i ask for understanding from those who will not be able to come to the train today. catch the eye
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i very much welcome the commission's european agenda on migration. it is a first step in the right direction, europe can work here. but europe must also be solidary: everyone must do what he or she is able to do member states too. a package of measures is needed. elmar brok was right when he said that everything has to be done, that not everyone can do only what he wants to do. it is only in this way that we can solve european problems in a european way, and it is only in this way that we can move forward in this crisis situation.
thank you very much for that. i would remind the council and the commission of the question put by the chairman of the committee on budgets on the question of the frontex headquarters agreement. we're still waiting for an answer. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. we must finally stop seeing migration to europe as a threat. as long as we keep our policies on this, we will not achieve a modern immigration policy. we must finally apply our values and fundamental rights to refugees. the commission's proposals to extend the mandate for sea rescue, to allocate refugees among the member states and to establish a european programme for the resettlement of refugees are therefore welcome in principle. however, many of the proposals are late, we have been calling for a full sea rescue programme since the end of the 'mare nostrum' mission, why are there only proposals now? why are the member states still reluctant to distribute refugees fairly in europe? we have been calling for many years for safe and legal ways for refugees to come to europe, so that they do not have to risk their lives by being trafficked into europe. why does the proposed migration agenda not include this? we must make it clear to the member states that we must finally see migration as an opportunity and not continue to pursue a policy of humiliating and shameful isolation.
i have received requests from the ecr group for appointments and changes in committees and delegations. the list of these names and amendments shall be published in the minutes of this meeting. these designations shall be deemed to be confirmed if no objection is received until the approval of this protocol.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. perhaps to clarify, mr jurek, the council is represented by the respective presidency. that means that the presence of the minister this morning is quite normal. for your information, mr tusk is the president of the european council. this is a different body from the council of the european union. you have to separate that. (applause from the centre) the president of the european council reports here after the summit of heads of state or government. then mr tusk will come along. we are all aware, however, that the messages have nothing to do with the polish presidential election campaign. we all know that.
we now come to the election of a vice-president in accordance with rules 15, 17 and 20 of our rules of procedure. i have received the following nominations: first, the following declared his candidacy with his consent: mr fabio massimo castaldo. in addition, it has been proposed with your consent: mrs anneli jäätteenmäki. the candidate and the candidate have informed me that they have been proposed with their consent. the election shall be by secret electronic voting. (the president declared the vote to be taken.) this is followed by a technical test match with two fictitious names. ) mr lucke, you asked for the floor. you want to run for office?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. no, i don't want to run. but i would like to ask the two candidates to introduce themselves very briefly because i don't know the second candidate at all.
mr lucke, that is not in our rules of procedure. elections are held without debate. but i've taken your wishes into consideration. we shall now proceed to the vote.
we shall now proceed to the vote. (the sitting was suspended at 1.30 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) (the president declared the result of the vote) mr fabio massimo castaldo 285 votes mrs anneli jäätteenmäki 301 votes mrs jäätteenmäki has therefore been elected as president of the european parliament. madam president, i would like to congratulate you on your election and welcome you to the bureau. to a good working relationship.
ladies and gentlemen, no amendments were tabled to the proposal of the conference of presidents for the calendar of the 2016 part-sessions, which was announced to the plenary on monday 18 may. the agenda is approved.
(chairman of the inta committee) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in view of this vote, which has changed considerably from the vote in committee, i would ask for a short break in accordance with rule 61 (2) of the rules of procedure so that i can weigh up this vote with the rapporteur and the coordinators. i ask for a five-minute recess in accordance with rule 61 (2).
chairman of the inta committee). dear colleagues, after we have discussed the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteur and the coordinators, there are different opinions on the further course of the discussions. but i think we should decide this in plenary. i therefore ask that the final vote be suspended and that the trilogue be opened, in accordance with rule 61 (2).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a philosopher once said, "in the stream of truth, lies float with it". i'm afraid that's the case here, too. of course we want a single market, of course we want to ensure that people in europe can move freely. of course, we also want to simplify financial flows, which is right. but unfortunately, evil also finds its place in this freedom. we must of course deal intensively with money laundering and - as my predecessor said - with the financing of terrorism. it was therefore right that the commission should make further proposals to supplement the present proposal. i think that is extremely important and that is why i was able to vote in favour of the directive. i would just like to ask one thing: we will also have to be critical of this fourth money laundering directive, because it is like this: even the bad and the evil have sometimes too much imagination, and they will continue to evolve. we simply have to stay on top of the problem.
in writing. ‒ the resolution on the transmission of information on money transfers ensures that anonymous transfers will be more difficult in the future. i have agreed to this in view of the political groups' line, because in my view cash is and should remain the appropriate means for anonymous money transfers. however, anonymous cashless transactions must not be used for money laundering. in future, banks will have a greater role to play in this, and they will have to assess the risk of a transaction being fraudulent.
in writing. a mandatory system of control of the origin of minerals and metals from conflict areas is urgently needed for human rights reasons and to prevent violence, war, persecution and corruption. i think the epp group's approach to finding a realistic and feasible way forward is right.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the labelling of substances in conflict. we want to end the link between mineral extraction and trade and the financing of armed conflict by introducing a binding system of control of the origin and mandatory transparency rules for conflict minerals. we also want to focus on the people in the conflict areas. i am convinced that the mineral resources available represent a considerable development potential for africa. new european legislation must not lead to further conflict and violence in africa.
in writing. i voted today in favour of the resolution on the labelling of substances in conflict. we want to put an end to the abusive exploitation of mineral resources and to child labour by introducing binding european legislation on the labelling of conflict minerals. with this vote we have sent a clear signal against the financing of conflict through trade in raw materials. it is also true that mining can be a source of economic development, but if it exploits workers, it also leads to negative economic development, child labour and armed conflict. that is why we want to make the regulation of the use of conflict minerals not just a voluntary option but a mandatory one for all companies. products we take for granted are often produced for us by people in need in another part of the world. we want to curb this exploitation with this measure. this can help to prevent consumers from indirectly contributing to the suffering of others.
in writing. ‒ on 20 may 2015, parliament voted on the resolution on 'self-certification by importers of certain minerals and metals from conflict-affected and high-risk areas'. i have rejected this resolution because it goes far beyond the objective it sets itself. there is indeed a problem with the use of commodity revenues to finance civil wars. they keep the conflicts in these regions alive. i think it would be a good idea to introduce self-certification for importers to solve this problem. i therefore support the voluntary approach of the european commission. but the majority of parliament has extended the proposal from voluntary self-certification to regulatory compulsory certification. i reject the wider proposal, supported by the majority of this house, to include all minerals and all companies which use these materials. the extent of the burden of proof is too much for the economy and is not in proportion to the chance of bringing peace to the regions concerned. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it would have been better to have confined ourselves to the moderate voluntary system at first and then to have reviewed its success later.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against the maternity directive. i am very much in favour of providing social protection for young mothers in the world of work, since there are different rules in the member states. however, the rules on maternity protection in poland differ from those in malta, germany and the united kingdom. this is also linked to the social cultures and social responsibilities of the member states. the eu must not level these things out, we should not responsibly interfere with the social competence of the member states. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal on maternity leave, as the eu has no regulatory competence in this area; this is a matter for the member states. i am in favour of adequate protection for expectant mothers. but there are already a variety of rules in the member states and we already have european minimum standards in this area. the social security systems in the 28 member states are simply too different and i think that further harmonisation is wrong. we have a well-functioning system of maternity and parental leave in germany. we must preserve this and not let ourselves be squeezed into a european corset that does not fit!
in writing. ‒ a motion on maternity leave is also on the ballot today. so, just so there's no misunderstanding, the longer the better. but what does this have to do with "europe"? where is the added value of a european solution? i do not find it, and therefore i am voting against the motion for a resolution today.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this resolution because the european parliament is not the appropriate institution to decide on these issues. maternal protection is an elementary part of family policy. this is basically a national task. the eu, however, is appropriating a competence by perceiving women, following the marxist maxim, only as workers fully integrated into the labour market, but not in their natural role as mothers. the commission also added an anti-discrimination clause as a legal basis. however, it is not a disadvantage if men are naturally infertile and therefore cannot benefit from maternity leave. the ep is itself to blame for the impasse in the negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. all the national delegations defend their own national law, because maternity protection is deeply rooted in the cultural consciousness of nations as part of national family policy. the european parliament has therefore committed itself to being an honest broker in this resolution. if each member state were to take responsibility for its own maternity protection, this would also reflect the value that the state and society place on mothers and families.
in writing. ‒ today's vote will include a vote on the massive infestation of olive trees with xylella fastidiosa. i admit that i did not know that this plant disease was killing olive trees in southern europe and threatening the existence of many olive growers. but why should a representative from berlin be concerned with this problem? as neither oaks, beeches nor spruce trees are threatened by this disease, and therefore a cross-border risk is by definition excluded, i had to vote against this resolution. we cannot preach subsidiarity all the time and then open the door to centralism.
in writing. ‒ with my group i voted in favour of the resolution on the bacterial infestation of olive trees in italy. olive trees in italy are being attacked by the bacterium xylella fastidiosa. the presence of the bacterium in italy was first detected in 2013. since then, it has been spread by insects in the puglia region. recently, the presence of the bacterium has also been detected in the province of lecce. at the end of april the commission proposed strict control and containment measures in italy. experts from eu member states agreed that more action is needed to prevent further spread. a risk-based approach has been agreed with regard to imports; the importation of coffee plants from honduras and costa rica has been stopped. the ecr group calls for the immediate introduction of containment and control measures. free trade is a very high good, but it has its limits when the importation of products causes damage to third parties.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, i would like to thank parliament for giving me the opportunity to address you on the important issue of eu-turkey relations. let me begin by emphasising that turkey is very significant partner for the eu. its dynamic economy provides a valuable contribution to the prosperity of the european continent. i would like to underline, in this regard, the important regional role of turkey and its active involvement in its wider neighbourhood. the european union has repeatedly re-affirmed the importance it attaches to our relations. two days ago the eu-turkey association council held its 53rd meeting in brussels. it was a valuable meeting for relations between the eu and turkey, despite diverging positions on certain issues. i want to start today with positive developments in our relations. there have been a number of important positive signals in our relations over the last year. first, we welcome the dialogue and cooperation on foreign policy issues, in particular, active counterterrorism dialogue between the eu and turkey and exchange of best practices on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment to terrorism. the attacks in paris, belgium and denmark prove how important such steps are. we should develop closer cooperation against isil/da’esh and its funding networks, and enhance our efforts to stem the flow of foreign fighters. secondly, we acknowledge the important regional role turkey plays. here i would like to praise the considerable efforts made by turkey in hosting around two million refugees fleeing the violence in syria and iraq. the eu will continue to support turkey so it can deal effectively with the increasing flow of refugees, including through financial assistance. thirdly, we have seen the ratification of the eu readmission agreement and the ongoing dialogue on visa liberalisation. in this regard, we expect a full and effective implementation of the agreement by turkey in respect of all eu member states. this applies equally to the visa roadmap. now let me turn to the accession negotiations with turkey. further progress in the accession negotiations requires political will and courage and is in the interests of us all. in this context, we welcome the strong commitment to eu accession displayed by the turkish government in its eu strategy and look forward to its concrete follow-up. progress under chapter 17 on economic and monetary policy would in due course further support economic dialogue between turkey and the eu and encourage alignment with the aquis. mentioning chapter 17 brings me to reiterate that active and credible accession negotiations, which respect the eu’s commitments and establish conditionality, will enable our relations to achieve their full potential. in line with the negotiating framework, the eu continues to encourage turkey to develop its foreign policy, in coordination with the eu, and to progressively align with the euʼs common foreign and security policy. i would also like to remind you that turkey needs to commit itself fully to good neighbourly relations and to the peaceful settlement of disputes, in line with the negotiating framework and previous european council conclusions. i would recall that on 24 october 2014 the european council expressed serious concern about the tension in the eastern mediterranean. it urged turkey to respect the sovereignty of cyprus over its territorial sea and the sovereign rights of cyprus in its exclusive economic zone. under those circumstances, the european council considers it more important than ever to ensure a positive climate so that negotiations for a comprehensive cyprus settlement can resume. turkey’s commitment and contribution in concrete terms to such a comprehensive settlement is crucial and we certainly welcome the resumption of talks, which took place on 15 may 2015. the opening of further negotiation chapters continues to deepen our fulfilment of the requirements of the negotiating framework and accession partnership. turkey’s full and non-discriminatory implementation of the additional protocol to the association agreement in respect of all member states could also provide a significant boost to the negotiation process. let me reiterate that the eu is determined to continue to help turkey in its reform efforts with a view to advancing the negotiations as soon as the respective conditions are met. the pace of negotiations can be accelerated by turkey advancing in the fulfilment of benchmarks, by meeting the requirements of the negotiation framework and by respecting its contractual obligations towards the eu. this brings me to my next point, which concerns domestic developments in turkey. the eu extends its strongest political support to the renewed efforts for a peaceful settlement of the kurdish issue. we encourage further engagement by all parties to move the process forward. concerning the ongoing reforms, we welcome the continued implementation of reforms adopted in previous years and, in particular, measures announced in the democratisation package. we are, however, concerned about undue interference by the executive in the judiciary, frequent changes to key legislation without the due consultation of stakeholders, and restrictions on access to information. the council, in its conclusions of december 2014, addressed the issue of the rule of law and respect for human rights – including the rights of women, children and persons belonging to minorities – freedom of religion and property rights. freedoms and reforms should also enhance the implementation of all the judgments of the european court of human rights. last year we also expressed regret at the continued response by the government to the alleged cases of corruption. these actions have cast serious doubts over the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and demonstrated an increasing intolerance of political opposition, public protest and critical media. the police raids and the detention of a number of journalists and media representatives in turkey in december 2014, on which this house also issued a resolution expressing its concerns, call into question respect for media freedom, which is a core principle of democracy. let me underline that legislation on the right of association and the right of assembly should be brought into line with european standards. in this regard, we emphasise the important role of the constitutional court and we note positively the growing engagement of civil society in turkey. it should be further supported and encouraged as a legitimate stakeholder. we consider that stepping up cooperation with the eu and strengthening common activities in the area of the rule of law and fundamental rights will bring turkey closer to the eu and speed up work on possible future discussions in these key areas. to conclude, we firmly believe that the eu should remain the anchor of political and economic reforms in turkey and we continue to encourage work on the implementation of reforms. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs kati piri, for the tremendous work she has put into the resolution. the number of amendments is impressive and testifies to the great importance parliament attaches to the eu’s relations with turkey. thank you all for a well-balanced and comprehensive end product.
member of the commission.– madam president, i am here today to deliver the following statement on behalf of commissioner hahn, who is responsible for neighbourhood policy but unfortunately could not be here today due to the riga summit. first, i would like to thank the rapporteur on turkey, mrs kati piri, for delivering a high-quality report and for her endless efforts in procuring compromises. the report is balanced and addresses the key elements of eu—turkey relations both in terms of achievements and challenges. in order to tackle the serious global and regional challenges that we share, we need to engage turkey even more. the human tragedies in the mediterranean, the threat posed by terrorist groups, the severe conflicts in our neighbourhood, the economy and climate change are all issues we cannot effectively face alone. concerning migration and border management: as you know from the european council meeting in april, there is more generally a pressing need to reinforce our cooperation with turkey on managing these issues, including the fight against the smuggling of migrants. at a working dinner last sunday, frederica mogherini, johannes hahn and turkey’s ministers çavuşoğlu and bozkir agreed to work together to prepare a plan on reinforced cooperation. this also underlines the high level of importance we attach to the visa liberalisation dialogue. the situation in syria and iraq has called for the reinforcement of our cooperation on foreign policy issues and counter-terrorism. turkey has made remarkable efforts to host about 2 million syrian and iraqi refugees and deserves our full support in coping with this immense burden. turning to the cyprus issue, the commission believes that the time has come for all involved to embrace the current opportunity to solve the problem. the commission stands firmly behind the un envoy espen eide in his efforts to get the communities in cyprus to successfully continue the settlement talks. the commission strongly encourages all the relevant stakeholders, including turkey, to contribute to a positive climate. turkey has marked a renewed commitment to the accession process, notably through a new eu strategy and corresponding action plans. it is in the interest of both the eu and turkey that the eu remains the anchor for turkey’s political and economic reforms. we are, in particular, determined to fully tap into the huge potential of our economic relations. the commission is also actively working towards developing a high-level economic dialogue and making progress towards the opening of chapter 17 on economic and monetary policy, for which technical preparations are underway. last week, commissioner malmstrom and the turkish minister for the economy, zeybekçi, building on important preparatory work, have endorsed the process of enhancing and deepening eu-turkey trade relations and of upgrading the customs union agreement to improve its structure and function. the commission will now be launching internal procedures, including a comprehensive impact assessment, in order to seek negotiating directives from the council. the commission intends to keep the relevant committees of this parliament regularly informed on this important process. regarding energy security: in march, vice president maroš šefčovič launched a high-level energy dialogue and attended the start of works on the tanap trans-anatolian gas pipeline which, once completed, will contribute to europe’s energy security. regarding developments in turkey, we share most of the views and concerns raised in your report on the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. these are key areas where turkey needs to prove its commitment to the accession process. we hope to see turkey re—engage in reforms, in line with european standards and values, and actively consult all stakeholders. providing a clear roadmap for reforms and defining the opening benchmarks for chapters 23 and 24 will be in the interest of both turkey and the eu. the commission is ready to help, including through pre-accession assistance. our assistance is to be based on sector reform strategies and will be result-oriented with the aim of increasing its impact and visibility. to conclude, the commission has high expectations for our cooperation with turkey. after the election, i hope to see the new government and parliament re-energise the eu agenda in turkey. it will also be an excellent opportunity for members of the european parliament to engage with their turkish counterparts in a constructive manner on both positive achievements and challenges.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, let me express my gratitude to the rapporteur for the report, mrs kati piri, for the many weeks and months of negotiations we have had. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs of the other groups. we have had difficult talks and we have reached very good agreements and everyone in this house knows how difficult this is on the subject of turkey. so that's something to really appreciate and acknowledge. and something very special to be acknowledged. we are in an anniversary year this year. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. but it was precisely at the beginning of these negotiations that the will to reform in this country began to wane, and now, on the contrary, for years there has been almost nothing but backsliding. turkey is gradually moving further away from the european union. it is not just that this country still fails to meet the copenhagen criteria for accession in any respect. it is a matter of massive interference with fundamental rights and freedoms, and of course we are dealing with this in our resolution. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the policy towards the republic of cyprus has also not changed. i don't have to go into that, there are plenty of other colleagues who will. dramatic developments, we hope for improvement. and in this situation i really must say that i think it is wrong to ask for the opening of new negotiating chapters. because that would also support the ak party in the current election campaign. they'd sell it as a reward for their anti-democratic policies. i think we need to re-evaluate the negotiation process. the commission and the council of ministers should give this the same thought as we did in our discussions leading up to this resolution. yes, turkey is important to us - as a trustworthy neighbour, as a trading partner with regard to energy security and, of course, the fight against terrorism. and yes, turkey is doing so much for the refugees it has taken in, and for that, it deserves our appreciation and support. and let me say one last thing: unfortunately, turkey has not moved any closer to the fundamental values of the european union. and that is a sad situation. we must say this clearly as the european parliament, this is our task.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the accession negotiations with turkey were opened ten years ago. the council decided to do so on the recommendation of the commission. this decision was already deeply dishonest and therefore unwise. there are a number of countries which have no intention of ever allowing turkey into the european union. our friends in ankara know this, our friends in istanbul know this, our friends in turkey know this. if the council declares here this afternoon that the european union is still the anchor of political reform in turkey, i wonder on what planet you are living. turkey is reforming itself in the way it wants to reform itself, in the direction it wants to go, in the direction the democratically elected government wants to take the country. unfortunately, this is a direction which has little to do with the first copenhagen criterion, the political criterion. we have heard it from you, madam president-in-office. freedom of the press is in clear danger, the independence of the judiciary is not guaranteed, freedom of assembly is not guaranteed - these are essential criteria for the admission of a country to the european union. but that is precisely why we are asking for a reassessment of this whole process, a constructive reassessment. no one in this house disputes that turkey must be an important strategic ally of the european union. there is so much good we could do together - in energy policy, in people-to-people contacts, in visa facilitation. there is so much research, universities, culture. but all of this is overlaid by an accession process that has led to a poisoning of relations because it is so deeply dishonest. and that is why i think it is really crucial to make this reassessment together in a constructive way, so that the european union and turkey, in the 100th year of the republic of turkey in 2023, are still partners and friends and that this process has not led to us turning away from each other.
i have to say, madam president, there's a lot going wrong in turkey. the issues have already been mentioned: minority rights, women's rights, freedom of expression, whether online or offline, media freedom, freedom of the press. there are many problems. the new law criminalizing protesters and activists has also been mentioned. it is precisely because of all these problems that we should take the accession process more seriously now, because an accession process is our best way of supporting the actors for change in turkey. tearing down the bridges isn't going to help anyone. fundamental rights and justice should always be at the beginning and at the centre, at the heart, of an accession process. these chapters must be opened. they should have been opened from the beginning. it's very, very late. we should do this now, not later. these are our core values, because europe is more than a single market. it is not enough to look at the market opportunities. we must strengthen the rule of law, democracy and the rights of the people on the ground. that is the point, but that is exactly what we can achieve with a serious and credible accession process.
blue-card answer.– if i understood correctly, you are asking about the cyprus question. as the commissioner mentioned, i think we now have a unique window of opportunity that we need to use. i think the european union should do its utmost to support the resolution process in cyprus. it is absolutely right that we have a big problem there and that the turkish army should not be in cyprus. but let us use that opportunity. in the past, opportunities have unfortunately not been used, but we should go ahead now because we really should not have this unresolved problem and crisis in the middle of the european union. i also think that the accession process in turkey could be a vital tool to, let us say, give a little push towards a solution.
blue-card question. – just one short question, mr kefalogiannis. we were in negotiations together in which you participated in your capacity as the chair of the ep/tgna joint parliamentary committee. your statements now indicate that you have serious problems accepting vast swathes of turkish policy—making. do you think you should continue in your function as chair of the jpc, because apparently you have really serious problems with turkey?
i have to say, madam president, turkey has been a candidate country for 15 years and accession negotiations were opened 10 years ago. unfortunately, since then, not only has there been no progress, but there has been a setback. turkey has moved further and further away from the values of the eu: freedom of religion, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, etc. you have to articulate that, you have to point that out. this does not mean that turkey is not an important partner of the eu in many ways. we must therefore pause for a moment and reassess and re-establish the relationship between the eu and turkey and between turkey and the eu.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank our colleagues vajgl, kukan and howitt and commissioner hahn for their mediation efforts. this is a difficult task, and this difficult task is to agree on a new beginning without throwing the entire country into chaos or turning peaceful protest into violence. i was in skopje this weekend and saw tens of thousands of people demonstrating for a change of direction towards more democracy, towards more freedom of the judiciary and the media and towards more action against corruption and crime. it was not so important that social democrats were also speaking. what was more important was that there was a wide range of ngos, that there were people from all different ethnic backgrounds, and that it was peaceful. peaceful because the protesters were peaceful and because the police and the authorities acted wisely. this attitude brings the country closer to the eu and we should therefore support it. our condolences go out to the families and friends of those who died in kumanovo. but i'm pretty sure it's not an ethnic conflict, it's a crime. and so we should be careful in our words that we don't elevate it to an ethnic conflict. i wish our mediators luck and success. this includes a willingness to compromise, not just on one side, but on all sides. but let 's not kid ourselves: no head of government in the european union - except perhaps one - would survive the revelation of news about him and his government's work, as has happened in recent days with this wiretap story.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eastern partnership has a clear objective. it offers a framework for political and economic cooperation with the eu's neighbours, and it facilitates intensive trade links and greater social exchange. the eastern partnership is an offer of the closest possible cooperation to neighbours who are not or do not want to be members of the eu. so there is nothing to prevent armenia and azerbaijan from continuing to cooperate well in this respect just because they have rejected the offer of an association agreement and an extended free trade agreement. but it is also necessary that foreign trade and foreign relations be guided by our values. it is useful that the commission has launched a review of the neighbourhood policy. and given the enormous security challenges in the neighbourhood, which mr saryusz-wolski has also mentioned - now in ukraine - it is not the right time to change the policy completely. but the riga summit must send a clear signal that the eu wants to make its cooperation with the eastern partners not only better but also more efficient. more solidarity, yes, but also more efficiency and effectiveness in concrete terms with the individual partners. it is time to reflect on the strengths of the eastern partnership, on the concrete offers of cooperation and support for the strengthening of state institutions, for democratic reforms, for improved regional cooperation. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. and that too should be considered, at least in the medium term.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eastern partnership summit, which starts tomorrow in riga, will be a summit of contradictions. the summit announcements already show this, in which, while they speak of differentiated relations, they at the same time announce the continuation of the eu's current policy, regardless of the partners' expectations. obviously you are right, mr saryusz-wolski, when you refer to the absence of the commission in the chamber. the main themes of the summit are also marked by contradictions: strengthening the rule of law yes. but we have to ask what the eu is doing in practice to ensure that in moldova, not corrupt oligarchs, overthrow a prime minister who cannot be banned by ukraine, contrary to our fundamental values, at the whim of parties. a recent survey by the gorshchenin institute of the kiev government shows that more than three quarters of the population of ukraine believe that there are no real, deep-rooted reforms that have been long awaited since the maidan protests. these are the realities that the summit must measure up to. another reality for riga is that human rights and democracy can hardly exist if social rights and social justice issues are left out from the start: unemployment rates of almost 20% in armenia and georgia among young people, these are much higher and a nearly halving of the female employment rate, as in moldova, signals profound socioeconomic transformation processes that require more than development of market opportunities. these are the questions we have to ask ourselves, the council and the commission, because the eastern partnership is more than geopolitics, it is above all a joint policy and development.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the clear political signal from this summit in riga should be that the european union will continue its close cooperation with the eastern neighbourhood partners with consistency and commitment. in view of some strange remarks i have heard today in this debate - from representatives of both the far left and the far right - i would like to stress once again that the eastern partnership does not mean that the partner countries have to choose between the eu and russia. it is not a question of either or, but rather of both. the eastern partnership is not directed against anyone, including russia. it is up to the eastern partnership countries to decide to what extent they wish to cooperate with the european union. not all countries can and do want to move closer to the european union at the same speed and in the same policy areas. the aim of cooperation with the partner countries will therefore be to develop tailor-made approaches for each of the six countries. at the same time, the european union must not tire of stressing the importance of our european values, such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. this should also be a topic at the forthcoming summit in riga.
i have to say, madam president, i hope that the outcome of the summit will be encouraging to our eastern partners, encouraging in terms of a european perspective, if they are seeking it. i have the impression that some people want to opt for this perspective - and we are not obliged to do so - because only this perspective will establish democracy, freedom and the rule of law in this part of europe. we all know what the russian perspective is on this. in concrete terms, this means that we must not fall behind the vilnius declaration of 2013 and that, in view of the russian aggression that has taken place since then, we make it clear that we are providing the people - in particular in ukraine, but also in georgia - with something very concrete, in addition to the billions of dollars in aid, especially towards ukraine, which costs us nothing, but which demonstrates our commitment and our sympathy with them: and this, in my view, is a concrete and short-term visa exemption. that is also stated in the letter which has already been mentioned by other colleagues. i think that we must give a very precise outlook on this road, on this summit, so that people can feel, for themselves, that they are part of this free europe.
madam president, madam minister, i have to say that i am very pleased with the report. the european union has been successfully associated with chile for 12 years through an association agreement. much has been achieved: chile is now one of the most stable countries in latin america. the economic development has been very positive and we have now reached a point where we simply have to say: after 12 years, such an association agreement must be modernised. we in the european union have a great interest in continuing the political dialogue and in strengthening our cooperation, above all in areas such as social cohesion, energy policy, education policy, cooperation - including with research institutes in europe and chile - and, of course, trade. chilean president bachelet has also proposed that a new eu-chile association agreement should include gender policies and lgbti rights. we very much welcome this and expect the eu-celac summit to support this commitment to modernise this agreement and give it a real boost. i believe that we need this not only in our relations with chile but in our cooperation with the latin american countries as a whole.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, we are having this debate today because the committee on employment and social affairs has posed an oral question to the council under the title ‘youth employment initiative – need for swift implementation at member state level’. as important as this question is, i would assume that at least 99% of eu citizens do not have a clue what an oral question actually is and what this debate is about. so i thought i should explain. it is stated in the question that the financial and economic crisis ʽhas caused youth unemployment to reach alarming levels in many member states’. let me translate this statement briefly and bluntly. neo-liberal policies, following a deregulation agenda, have messed up european economies and created massive levels of youth unemployment in recent years. the group most affected by this are young people who had no opportunity to influence the policies that led to this situation. now, as a reaction to this, we see a common pattern – youth is blamed, the eu reacts, the eu allocates money. for me, it is still far too little, but, well, the eu allocated money to fight youth unemployment that is now supposed to be spent by the member states in the regions most affected by youth unemployment. the oral question reads: ‘results on the ground do not meet initial expectations’. wow! this sentence is almost too diplomatic to even be translated, but i will try. many members of this parliament, including me, are simply outraged by the fact that the money allocated to the member states for the youth employment initiative has still, after 22 months, not been properly taken up. we, as parliamentarians, thus use this tool of an oral question to tell the member states very clearly that we need to see action now. i hope that many citizens will follow this example and go out on the streets, write letters and pose questions to their governments, urging them to take action.
i have to say, madam president, it is sad that this is taking so long and that the opportunities of many young europeans are being squandered, indeed destroyed, by lack of initiative. but we in the european parliament will not relax our efforts to combat youth unemployment. that is why it was important for us to put this question to the council today for an oral answer. we are still light years away from the goal of reducing or even eliminating youth unemployment in europe. for years there have been effective summits, public conferences, fine words, many promises but nothing has happened. and again and again, reasons and problems were pointed out for the failure. first there was no money, then money was made available. then there was money, but it was not called. the problem was co-financing or pre-financing, and now we have solved it. but now there can be no more excuses. the member states must now finally act and show real initiative. help the youth, please!
i have to say, madam president, we are concerned about the 5 million young people who are without education, without work, without prospects. we do not want to console with fine words, we want concrete measures, i.e. the european youth guarantee plus the youth employment initiative. if the 6 billion euros - and there are more - are not called up, if the regional institutions do not agree on the powers, if cofinancing in problem regions and in crisis states is not sufficient, then that only means that we are preventing the obstacles to effective trade. i therefore ask you, madam president, will the youth guarantee be better implemented if the advance is increased from 1% to 30%? will you continue to put this issue on the agenda of the council summits? do you involve the social partners? do you make sure that small and mediumsized enterprises are naturally involved? we in the european parliament never want to leave those affected alone. i believe that message has been received. i hope you can convince the member states of that.
i have to say, madam president, i think we're all outraged that these whale protection regulations have been in place for 30 years and japan just doesn't follow them. this is a very, very bad example of trust and also of solidarity for the protection of species and natural capital, and i wonder what else needs to happen to stop japan. the question, of course, is to the council and the commission: what are we going to do now? do we watch, do we listen, or do we intervene? the european union is a political and economic force, and we would certainly find other partners in the world. the science program is clearly an excuse. most whales end up in the supermarket, not the laboratories. you know that, and yet you keep getting comfort from program 1, program 2. now we're on to program 3, and the cynical thing about program 3 is that it still kills 81 more whales than program 2. so obviously the need for 'science' has increased considerably, even though you have other methods. we are running out of patience and we are calling on the eu to take more drastic measures against japan now!
i have to say, madam president, the later the evening, the more interested the audience. the room is almost empty, but it's all about animals! but on the subject: japan is said to hunt whales for scientific purposes. in 2014, the international court of justice ruled that japan must stop whaling because it is not for scientific purposes. the japanese are planning to resume whaling in antarctica this year. the fishing quota is even to be increased from 252 to 333 minke whales. most of the whales that are hunted are now endangered. it is a shame that in the face of this fact japan and two other countries are just going on stubbornly. because when these majestic marine mammals disappear from the world stage, the earth is miraculously poorer. i would like to quote my friend, captain paul watson, of sea shepherd, who said: 'first the sea dies, then the man dies.' the european council has the duty to do everything possible to ensure that japan abandons whaling completely.
i have to say, madam president, the recovery of the european economy, albeit slight, is certainly welcome news to begin with. we must nevertheless continue to push forward the economic and investment agenda. the need to ensure that economic growth in europe is both durable and sustainable. i believe that three aspects are of particular importance here. firstly, it is a responsible budgetary policy. in the present context, it is essential that budgetary rules are respected in order to make the economic and monetary union sustainable. secondly, more investment. i am sure that the investment campaign which is now under way will bear fruit in the long term. but we should not forget that investors look not only at economic data and risk indicators, but also at economic performance, debt ratios and deficit figures. investment and a forward-looking economic policy are two sides of the same coin. the third is the implementation of structural reforms. the member states, in particular those member states in difficulty, which need to continue to push the reform agenda forward, remain at the root of all efforts. it is about the courage to undertake deep structural reforms, not about empty promises of reforms whose implementation is delayed. it is a matter of course that european pressure will be maintained. because reforms are a foundation for investment to fall on fertile ground and growth to emerge. we can't let up now. on the contrary, the economic recovery forecast by the commission should encourage us to make further efforts.
i have to say, madam president, we have a commission forecast that has improved by 0.2 percentage points. i must say, i'm very impressed. if the european central bank puts 60 billion euros into circulation every month, if interest rates are brought down to a level below zero, then the forecast will rise by 0.2 percentage points! this just goes to show that monetary policy can't fix almost anything. this shows that the real problems of the eurozone are still completely unaddressed, completely unresolved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and what do we find? growth in greece is not 2.9% but a paltry 0.5% - almost nothing! the problems in greece are continuing to mount, unemployment is still enormous, and young people have no prospects. the economic policy of the european union has failed completely, and greece is teetering on the brink of bankruptcy. unfortunately, this is the consequence of european economic policy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are now figures that say there is growth in europe now, and there will be a little more growth in the future. normally, you would have to say, we are on the right track. instead, they're just complaining. we are moving in a difficult time on a good path. i suggest that instead of complaining, we look at reality. it is different in the member states. there are member states which are making efforts, which are making efforts, which are also giving something to their citizens, but they are making progress and they are generating growth figures. there are member states which are looking after an intact and interesting culture for business start-ups and for less regulation, and there are member states which are spending more and more money. where are people better off? i suggest that we look at the realities, and in doing so we will find that there is more and less progress. but in principle, europe is moving forward. there is a big problem, that's true. because a government has been elected which is clearly not keeping to what has been agreed. but this is not a problem of europe in general. this is unfair. most of these countries that were in trouble - spain, ireland, latvia, portugal - are getting on, and other countries are doing really well. it is about corporate culture, it is about fiscal austerity, it is about growth incentives. it's not about spending more money. i can't stand to hear this. this is a place where people keep saying we should spend more money. then the wanderer goes on, and nothing changes. those who want to invest and the companies need support and help. yes, we can think about whether we may have regulated too much at one point or another. we can get smarter, all right. but this lawsuit is not going to help us at all. it takes courage, courage to take a stand and to go forward. thank you to the commission. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. statistical questions can be discussed a great deal and often. but if you have made basic assumptions, you have to stick to them in the long term, otherwise you don't have any comparison figures. and this statistical question is not helping us at all in the question of whether we are going to get growth going. the question depends on whether we have sound public finances, whether we have smart business investment and whether we have regulations that encourage businesses to create jobs. that is the answer that must be given, not the statistics. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. ask the people in ireland, the majority. and look at how the economic development has been there. i think it's great how you got out of such trouble. i'm not saying everything's perfect. it's not all good. we just have to try really hard. i am simply saying that the irish, the irish government, the spanish government, the portuguese government and the former greek government have all done something which has been successful. and success is something that can be measured and experienced. that doesn't mean that everything is great, not at all. (interruption by mr flanagan: 'rubbish, you know nothing.') i have seen this in my political life, and i have seen it for a few years now, many times, that there are political forces that do not engage in arguments, but that by shouting or by insulting or by slandering, they think they have rented the truth. there is no one truth. most of the time, life is complicated. that's why you have to work hard to solve problems. words are not enough.
the commission has already done so. acer is the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators. and that is the key, which is that the regulatory authorities of the 28 member states work together more closely and better, because as we know, electricity does not stop at national borders. the regulatory authorities of the member states are also doing a good job, but national authorities are naturally pursuing national interests. this makes it all the more important that an independent european agency regulates the cross-border flow of electricity in europe, and that it does so in the sole interest of the european internal market. acer cannot currently fulfil this important task because its decision-making powers are severely limited. but acer needs a stronger mandate, especially with regard to the establishment of the energy union. the transition from 28 national energy markets to a european energy market cannot succeed without strong european market surveillance. my question to the commission is: does the commission intend to extend the tasks and powers of acer? and can you please tell us more about that?
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. unfortunately, the fate of itai dzamara is only pars pro toto. the political repression in zimbabwe continues. for years there has been no change because mr mugabe is now said to have a clear majority in his parliament. his structures are determined to maintain power, and he personally wants to transfer it to his wife. it is ultimately secondary whether he succeeds in this within the party or whether other cronies share power after his death. the problem is that for the people of zimbabwe, this party and this structure have really led to a situation that is economically and socially unbearable. and i expect the european union to take action here, which is not just by cooperating under the motto 'business as usual' to make it a little easier for the regime to govern the country.
a writer. the commission is not there are many hidden camps in southern thailand where traffickers hold refugees, torture them, sell them into slave labor, or force them to call their families and ask for ransom. thailand's police chief describes these camps, near which some 30 mass graves have now been discovered, as prison camps. since the thai government has declared war on human trafficking, the traditional escape routes have been more tightly controlled, and it is difficult to get the refugees to land. this is increasing the flow of refugees, many of whom are trying to cross the sea to malaysia. they are rohingya from myanmar and bangladesh; in 2014, there were at least 25,000 people. at present, some 8,000 people are said to have been adrift at sea for weeks or months in shabby boats without food or water. malaysia and indonesia have refused to allow some boats to dock despite the extreme exhaustion of the people. it is admirable that indonesian fishermen have rescued boat refugees on their own initiative. we call on the governments of malaysia, indonesia and thailand to adopt a policy at the forthcoming conference to save the lives of refugees and to grant them asylum. we also call on the thai government to continue to fight human trafficking so that slave-like exploitation will end. but the protection of victims must be a central part of this. the situation of the rohingya in myanmar is desperate. we therefore call on the myanmar government to fundamentally reconsider and change its policy towards the rohingya. they must be granted citizenship, and the government must take action against discrimination and persecution.
a writer. the commission is not thulani maseko and bheki makhubu wanted to raise awareness of the human rights situation in their country and the state of their own legal systems and administration of justice. the sentences against these two were much more severe than in comparable cases. and we see that this was an attempt to discourage people from becoming active in this area. it is our task to make the swaziland authorities aware of their own constitution of 2005. they must respect their own constitution, which enshrines in article 24 the right to freedom of expression, media and press. the un universal declaration of human rights must be respected as well as the catonu agreement with the eu, which also refers to human rights and democracy. we must demand that these two men be released immediately and unconditionally but not only them, but all those who are imprisoned in swaziland for similar reasons. we also need to discuss the terms of his detention. they're both in solitary confinement, and that's really tantamount to torture. we must make a strong point here as the european parliament!
i have to say, madam president, i think that's a reasonable proposal. we have been working very hard on this report for over five months now. but the gap between the vote in committee and the vote in plenary was so short that it was not possible to reach the last of the compromises that are necessary in that short time. i therefore propose that we approve this request by mrs piri.
i have to say, madam president, for me, the question is not whether the european union can make a greater contribution to a common security and defence policy in this world. i believe that the european union must make a greater contribution. the european union is a global economy, and it is not just a single market, but a global economy. the situation has become increasingly unstable. this is a very serious matter, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done. that is why i was able to agree to the request and the report, and i only hope that the discussions with the council and the commission will now produce a result, because - as my predecessors have said - the most important secondary condition is, of course, that there will be no double structures and that the member states are prepared to establish a common security and defence policy together with parliament and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution of 21 may 2015 on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp). the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. parliament has no powers in this area of policy and can therefore only produce hot air. this does not stop the majority from even calling for a pre-financing mechanism to allow the eu to use money it does not have to do military things it is not allowed to do. it can't get any more absurd. at least, the report finds with some insight that the csdp suffers from 'structural deficits known for years'. this should be taken as an opportunity to strike them down completely and above all not to take further military action.
in writing. ‒ the spd meps voted against the kukan/tarand report today because we do not want to support the mechanisms proposed here for financing the csdp. the eu budget is chronically underfunded. the council of the eu is reluctant to provide sufficient funding for important eu objectives. the eu's payments crisis is not solved. it also continues to threaten the eu's external policy instruments, such as humanitarian aid. in this context, we cannot justify offering the council of the eu even the pro rata financing of a policy without authorising additional funds for the european budget and without the democratic control of this policy by the ep. we are concerned that the kukan/tarand report gives the council the possibility of financing csdp missions even if they do not receive the approval of the european parliament. the proposal therefore reduces the ep's control over the european budget. we reject this.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the resolution on the financing of the common security and defence policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. this applies in particular to their financing. security and defence policy can be organised multilaterally, but funding does not require permanent institutions (especially not at eu level). but it wants to create the resolution, as it advocates the 'establishment of a common service centre and an integrated resource management system'. even a small understanding of the scale of eu bureaucracy is enough to see this as the construction of another bottomless barrel.
mr secretary-general of the united nations, it is a great pleasure to welcome you back to the european parliament. i would like to welcome you to the house. you have accompanied your husband here today and we are also pleased to welcome you to the european parliament. seventy years ago, mr secretary-general, in 1945, the united nations was founded in san francisco. today the united nations is the most important organization for international cooperation. they are the pillar of the rules-based world order and they are indispensable to the maintenance of international security - international security that is challenged in the most diverse parts of the world as never before and in which the united nations has and must play a central role in resolving conflicts, because it is one of the instruments we need to bring about peaceful solutions. the european union - and this parliament in particular - shares the central objectives of your organisation, mr secretary-general: combating the effects of climate change, fighting global poverty and hunger, and promoting education and sustainable development. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe to find a way to live in peace and to be able to work together in a peaceful way. we are unreservedly at your side in this fight as the european parliament - i can say that with confidence on behalf of my colleagues. it is therefore a great honour to welcome you, mr secretary-general, to our house of european democracy, and i am pleased to be able to give you the floor of the european parliament for the second time. (applause from the centre and the right)
secretary-general of the united nations.– mr president, i am honoured to address the representatives of the people of europe. i congratulate president schulz on receiving the prestigious charlemagne prize this month for his work to promote democracy and to bring the european parliament closer to the people of europe it serves. (applause) this parliament represents a wide diversity of cultures and traditions bound by a common belief that we are stronger and better when we work together. you play an important role across every aspect of the united nations agenda. the european union is a pillar of international cooperation for peace, development and human rights. the united nations simply could not do what it does without the support, encouragement and engagement of the european union. i am deeply grateful for your strong commitment. today, i would like to highlight three dominant and interlinked challenges that must command greater collective attention: first, preventing violent extremism; second, addressing the migration challenge; and third, building a sustainable world for all. first, the growth of violent extremism is a grave threat to international peace and security. the unspeakable wave of brutality against civilians being perpetrated by extremist groups is a direct challenge to the universal values of peace, justice, tolerance and human dignity. the wanton destruction of cultural heritage is another affront to our common humanity. i remain fully committed to working with the european institutions to address this challenge. i will present a comprehensive united nations plan of action to prevent violent extremism to the general assembly later this year. our long-term response needs to focus on fostering inclusive governance, accountability, respect for universal values, and dialogue among communities. upholding human rights and the rule of law are essential. we must always be mindful of our special responsibility to avoid responses to terrorism and violent extremism that make the problems worse. we need to empower young men and women, and harness the influence of leaders from the cultural, religious and educational spheres. and we need to reflect on what motivates young men, and sometimes women, to become so alienated and radicalised that they are prepared to inflict harm on others and even end their own lives in the process. we see violent extremism most vividly in the atrocities committed by da’esh, boko haram, al shabaab and other sectarian and terrorist groups. but it is also evident in racist acts and hate speech – including by some political figures and parties. minorities and migrants are among the most frequent targets. let us work together to address all of these ills at their roots. the challenge of migration is of great concern to us all. from the mediterranean to the seas of southeast asia, too many women, men and children are losing their lives in perilous journeys of escape. this year, some 1 800 migrants have drowned in the mediterranean – a twenty-fold increase over the same period last year. half of those crossing the mediterranean are fleeing war or persecution or human rights abuses. they qualify for international protection as refugees. europe has an important role to play and a collective responsibility to act. saving lives should be the top priority. (applause)while we need to see more effective law enforcement actions against traffickers and smugglers, we also need safer alternatives to dangerous voyages, as well as legal channels such as resettlement, family reunification and work and study visas. two days ago in ireland, i met with people from syria, afghanistan, myanmar and the democratic republic of the congo who had been successfully re-settled. their new lives are not without difficulty, but they have found safety – and their new home is glad to have extended a helping hand. i know there are many more such examples across europe – and we need even more at this time. this morning i had another opportunity, of meeting a nine-year-old syrian girl who escaped atrocities and violence in her home country. i was so moved and touched when she was appealing to me and explaining her dream. i encouraged her not to despair; that the world is with her. the united nations and the european union are with her and her family and the syrian people. it was one of the most touching and moving moments for me. i welcome, the united nations welcomes, the proposals by the european commission for a new migration policy. today’s announcement by the european commission of a proposal for the relocation of 40 000 asylum-seekers is a step in the right direction. i encourage eu member states to show compassion as they consider this important proposal to share their responsibilities. (applause) successful burden-sharing can enable the european union to address the dramatically increasing flows of people while setting an example for other regions of the world facing similar challenges. the united nations, the un high commissioner for refugees and the international organisation for migration will continue to work with european leaders to address the crisis in a way that upholds human rights and international law. our approach must be comprehensive, looking at countries of destination, transit and, above all, origin. we must work to end the conflicts and development failures that have displaced more people today than at any point since the second world war. we must work together in europe and elsewhere to address the worrisome increase in stigma and discrimination against migrants. europe is experiencing low population growth and demographic transition to an aging population. the equation is clear: to meet its workforce deficit and maintain its economic dynamism, europe needs migrants. (applause) the post-war history of europe offers one of history’s great examples of cooperation for peace and prosperity. europe’s success has become a powerful draw for migration. europe’s values and guiding principles must guide the response. i encourage you to live up to the standards you have set for yourselves and for the world. let me now turn to the third and overarching global challenge on which we count on european vision and leadership: achieving landmark advances in this critical year for sustainable development. this must be a year of global action. in 2015, we have three historic opportunities to put the world on a sustainable, prosperous and equitable path. the first is in july, where we must renew the global partnership for development at the international conference on financing for development in addis ababa. developed countries have a responsibility to lead on providing the funds for eradicating extreme poverty and addressing climate change. official development assistance (oda) will remain a necessary part of the financing agenda, particularly for the least developed countries and small island developing states, which urgently need continued and increased support. i commend those countries which have met the target of committing 0.7% of their gross national product to official development assistance, including 0.2% for the world’s least developed countries. i urge other oecd countries to follow that example. i welcome yesterday’s decision by eu member states to re-commit to that target. i urge them to spare no effort to reach it as soon as possible. at the same time, we know that oda by itself is not sufficient. we must mobilise financing from a variety of sources, both public and private. the fundamental responsibility for financing sustainable development lies with governments. thus we need to support the improvement of effective and fair national tax systems. we also need to commit to more concerted international tax cooperation, as well as to combat tax evasion and illicit financial flows. a successful outcome in addis ababa is crucial for building trust, generating momentum and translating our future plans into reality. this year’s second development milestone comes in september in new york, when countries will adopt a bold post-2015 development agenda and embrace a new set of sustainable development goals which will be called sdgs. this is a universal, people-centred and planet-friendly agenda. all countries must transform their economies to end unsustainable consumption and production patterns. europe can lead the way in transitioning to a low-carbon economy. third, in december in paris, governments must make good on their commitment to adopt a universal, meaningful climate change agreement at the paris climate conference. strong european leadership is essential to deliver a new climate agreement that will enable europe to manage climate risks, enhance its prosperity and strengthen its security, including energy security. through its national commitment and climate and energy policy, the european union is blazing the trail to a safer, more prosperous low-carbon future for its people and our world. i thank the european union for being among the first to issue a climate target in march of this year, and for the generous contributions of many eu member states to the green climate fund. finance is critical to securing an ambitious agreement in paris. there must be a politically credible trajectory for mobilising the agreed usd 100 billion per year by 2020. and the green climate fund must be up and running before paris so that it can support small island developing states, least developed countries and africa. i request the european union’s strong support in ensuring this. i am also asking for the european union’s support on designing and delivering a special package for the most vulnerable countries, including the small island developing states and least developed countries, that addresses their concerns across climate and development. this package would focus primarily on finance, resilience, adaptation and energy. finally, i urge the eu to continue to champion higher ambition in the context of a paris agreement, both through strengthening its climate target for 2020, as well as considering more ambitious targets in the post-2020 period. (applause) thank you for your support. this year marks the seventieth anniversary of the united nations. our organisation was born from the ashes of the second world war which laid much of europe to waste. your peace and prosperity offer a concrete symbol of what can be achieved, even after the greatest devastation. we live in a complex and troubled world. but i believe we also live in a world of possibility, and that you are among the guardians of that promise. you are a locomotive with a most powerful engine. i urge you to pull the world from ahead and to push the world from behind with your strong engine power. together, we can prevail in providing a more just world for this and future generations. i thank you for your strong commitment to and leadership in democracy and for the spirit of service you bring to the important job of representing the european people. i thank you as well for supporting the ideals and objectives of the united nations – and for this opportunity to address you. let us walk together to make this world better for all, where all the people, regardless of where they come from, can live with dignity; where nobody will be left behind. that is our, my and your moral and political responsibility in this 21st century. i thank you for your attention and leadership. (the house accorded the speaker a standing ovation)
thank you very much, mr secretary-general. you speak german so well, mr. ban, you don't need a translator. thank you very much, mr. secretary general. i think the house's approval has shown you that the points you have raised are also the points that move us. we are grateful to you for your second visit to the european parliament. i should like to take this opportunity, mr secretary-general, to say to you that the members of the european parliament - and i think i can say this on behalf of all my colleagues - thank not only the united nations but also you personally, because i believe that you are one of the most credible representatives of the idea of peaceful cooperation between all the peoples of this planet. i would like to thank you personally, mr secretary-general. (applause from the centre and the right)
first vice-president of the commission.– madam president, i would like to thank the european parliament for the opportunity for this timely discussion. i am here on behalf of president juncker who had to leave for tokyo for the eu-japan summit, and today leaving for tokyo is even more difficult than usual because of the impossibility of leaving belgium by air. on 7 and 8 june, president juncker will represent the european union at the g7 summit in schloss elmau, in upper bavaria, together with president tusk. this is the 41st summit since the leaders of the ‘group of 6’ gathered for the first time in rambouillet, in november 1975. this year, under the leadership of chancellor merkel, g7 leaders will discuss a number of traditional topics and some relatively new issues. they will take stock of the situation of the global economy, they will assess progress on the global trade agenda and on their respective bilateral negotiations, and they will exchange views and seek common ground on the most pressing foreign policy challenges. both president tusk and president juncker intend to engage in discussions with their international partners and to use the opportunity, inter alia, to share the latest information on major european projects and initiatives, such as the investment plan for europe. they will also highlight current efforts to build a european energy union and illustrate the key elements of the recent european policy on migration. the g7 is expected to discuss and take an ambitious position in support of the negotiations on the post-2015 development agenda in new york and in view of the climate change conference of the parties in paris at the end of the year. the eu will bring into this discussion its high expectations for both outcomes, consistent with the positions expressed by this parliament. the g7 presidency has also sought to use the opportunity of this summit to shed international light on other important issues such as the protection of the marine environment, marine governance and resource efficiency. (disruption in the chamber: the president asked the speaker to pause)
first vice-president of the commission.– the summit will address the health-related issues of antibiotic resistance, neglected and poverty-related diseases, and the lessons learned from the recent ebola outbreaks. against the backdrop of the rana plaza tragedy in 2013, g7 leaders will recall the importance of respecting labour and other fundamental health and safety standards throughout the entire supply chain. we fully support the focus on these issues, which are high on the european agenda and embedded in eu policies, with strong support, may i say, from this parliament. (disruption in the chamber: the president asked the speaker to pause)
first vice-president of the commission.– thank you, madam president. i was on the verge of telling you something about the second day of the summit when the heads of state and government of a number of african countries and representatives of international organisations will attend what is known as a ‘g7 outreach’ meeting. the g7 supports african countries in their reform efforts and in their efforts to strengthen peace and security, growth and sustainable development. the g7 countries will therefore engage in dialogue with their guests on their common challenges, including on food security and the empowerment of women. and there is, may i add, a direct link between this effort and the need to tackle the issue of migration in a comprehensive way. the preparation of the summit is now entering the final phase. the eu hopes for high-level deliberations and an ambitious communiqué, where its strong positions can become g7 positions. in schloss elmau, the eu will advocate for the g7 to reaffirm the need for urgent and concrete action to address climate change, to confirm its commitment to fighting protectionism, to continue its engagement to strengthen health systems, to fight antimicrobial resistance and neglected tropical diseases, and to learn lessons from the ebola crisis on how to respond to public health emergencies. we also expect the g7 to strongly support the un negotiations to achieve an ambitious post-2015 agenda for sustainable development, to take action to promote women’s economic participation and entrepreneurship, and to step up its efforts in support of food security and nutrition. we also hope that the summit will contribute to raising public awareness about the global challenge posed by marine litter, in particular plastic litter, about the opportunities and constraints of deep-sea mining, and about the importance of protecting and using efficiently natural resources. last but not least, it is inevitable to note that, for the second consecutive year, this group meets without russia. following the illegal annexation of crimea, g7 leaders decided to suspend their participation in the g8 until russia changed course and the environment came back to a situation where the g8 would be able to have a meaningful discussion. this is clearly not yet the case and a return to the g8 format is not on the agenda. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. many of the problems we face today can no longer be solved without a global approach, without a global dimension. we can only think of the experience of the financial and economic crisis: the closure of the casino in which the financial markets have been operating, the setting of rules for this, is a european task today, but it will only be solved in the end if we act globally. that's why it's so important to talk on a global level. that's why the g7 meeting is so important. we in the epp group hope that we europeans will speak with one voice there. there are some european union countries present there, and we ask and hope that europe will also succeed in speaking with the voices present there. i would like to say a few words about the event itself. we all know that in the context of this event, the g7 summit, many citizens are also participating, demonstrating their opinions. and that is welcome, it is desirable that people get involved, even express their perhaps different views on global developments. but i would like to say on behalf of the epp group that we hope that this will be done peacefully. we can't use force! and violence does not come from the police forces, but violence comes from protesters who, unfortunately, promote god with false arguments for their positions. i also appeal to the heads of the non-governmental organizations to promote and promote non-violence. secondly, we have the open approach of the g7. g7 is not closing, it is opening. the g7 welcomes the prime ministers of ethiopia, iraq, liberia, nigeria, senegal and tunisia, and this shows that the g7 does not want to discuss amongst themselves, but wants to remain open to all other arguments. thirdly, as a general comment on the g7's approach, i would like to emphasize and take up the argument put forward by frans timmermans: russia is no longer at the table. it must be made clear that those who break international law are isolating themselves from the international community. (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the epp group is primarily concerned with growth and jobs. we need jobs for europe's youth. we are committed to open markets, to free trade. market opening has always led to more growth in the past, both in europe and globally. and that's why we want to continue to work in this area. we are committed to stable households because only where stable households exist will investors have enough confidence to invest in sites and create jobs. and thirdly, we need openness to reforms - a reform agenda in the internal structures of the states - to take up the developments of the new century. the second major area of concern that i would like to address is the area of stability. how can we ensure that global development proceeds in an orderly way, without major crises if possible? one of the big issues is the question of radicalization. how can we prevent people in our societies from becoming radicalized, perhaps even taking up arms, becoming violent? the fight against terrorism is important, but only the fight against the symptom. the reason behind this is the radicalization of societies. what is the reason why young people in particular are lured into wrongdoing? these questions need to be investigated. secondly, stability also means proper environmental protection. climate change is on the agenda in areas where europe is leading, where europe is setting the standard in many areas. and we also welcome the fact that there are areas such as the protection of the marine environment, which may not be so high on the agenda today, which will be discussed with priority at the g7 summit. third, on the topic of stability, we have seen that health crises like the ebola crisis can cause great global uncertainty. that's why we need common global responses to the health security of our citizens. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one. finally, i would like to point out that the issue which has been of great concern to us in parliament in recent months, namely the question of migration, is also a question of stability in the world. the fact that europe is ambitious, that we must finally achieve the 0.7% target, as the un secretary-general ban ki-moon has just said, is one of the measures of whether we are serious about fair development on a global scale. there's a lot of work to be done, and it's good that the g7 is meeting, talking to each other, and that we're thinking about global responses.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it's good that the g7 is dealing with climate change. we have just heard the speech of un secretary-general ban ki-moon in the previous session. the three points he mentioned are linked together like a string of pearls. these are the great challenges we have to face. i believe that we europeans must be able to show that we are not just doing climate action on the one hand and then having debates here - climate action versus growth versus jobs - but summing up the whole. the decoupling of growth and economic prosperity from carbon emissions is the great challenge of the future. and also in terms of resource consumption and resource use, these are going to be the big challenges ahead. frans timmermans has a sustainability theme in his portfolio. i think we need to think more holistically, not just in individual areas like the circular economy - the package is due to come this year - but to take a holistic approach to finance, to the economy, but also to climate change. we are debating the issue of refugee flows last week in the plenary. how do we want to respond to this? the flows of refugees will increase. and one of the things that will drive these refugee flows even further is going to be the issue of climate change. jobs and prosperity right. but it cannot be built at the expense of others. and this is also the continent of africa that is hit hardest by climate change. we're all needed here. it is not just europe that is called upon, but everyone is called upon to make a change of direction there, so that we can take a different direction. i hope that the g7 will pave the way and that this circle will be closed that a holistic approach will be found instead of always picking and discussing individual issues.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the g7 summit is, as always, a huge undertaking and a lot of money. it is particularly interesting that even the schengen agreement is being suspended to protect this meeting. i am aware that it is possible to suspend the schengen agreement to protect politicians, but not to protect citizens. in germany, the number of burglaries by professional east european gangs is exploding, and the policy is to deny this problem. while saving money on police stations, the german government is providing 10 million euros to help citizens better protect themselves. it's an admission that the state is failing here and cannot or will not protect its citizens. the uncontrolled migration across the mediterranean is also a problem. the eu now wants to introduce a quota system to distribute refugees better across europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we have already seen that the dublin convention is not working and that individual states are simply pushing refugees on. western security policy is a pile of rubble. the european union has been trying to get rid of unwelcome dictatorships in places like libya and syria, and now we are facing a humanitarian catastrophe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank mr timmermans for his opening speech, in which he clearly identified two priorities which are also very important to my group and especially to my colleagues on the committee on the environment. the first is the issue of antibiotic resistance. it is high time that this issue was placed at the top of the agenda of international and thus european politics. on 18 may, angela merkel gave a speech on this subject, explaining why germany is putting this on the g7 agenda. we have 25,000 deaths every year in the european union alone because antibiotic resistance is making them untreatable. and in other parts of the world, it's much more. that's why we have to act. the commission has made a number of proposals on this. we are working on a report by françoise grossetête on agriculture and veterinary medicine. i would encourage vice-president timmermans to address this issue in the context of the commission's work programme for 2016. we must also ensure that, for example, in the field of human medicine, new medicines are developed - new antibiotics - and that the antibiotics we have are used more responsibly. the second issue that has been raised a lot - including by ban ki-moon - is the issue of climate change. we must make urgent progress here at elmau castle on our way to paris. i would like to emphasize two points which president hollande and chancellor merkel made in their statement last week: we need to have a long-term decarbonisation target on the way to paris - and the g7 summit is an important intermediate step - and we need a mechanism now to achieve what we failed to achieve in paris, at the latest five years from now. we must now also be sustainable in the method. we will not solve all the problems, but we must make a very concrete step towards that end.
this year's g7 summit in elmau, germany, is themed 'thinking about tomorrow'. acting together. think about tomorrow. for me, working together means finding sustainable answers to the global challenges of our time. we cannot tackle these challenges as the european union alone. closer cooperation with our international partners is necessary. this includes well-negotiated free trade agreements. the free trade agreement with the united states, ttip, to put it simply, offers greater product diversity and lower prices for european consumers and great opportunities for our european economy. it is necessary for growth in europe and for the innovative and competitive power of our companies. without tariffs and unnecessary red tape, it will be much easier for our companies to tap the enormous potential of the american market. at the same time, we must ensure that our high european quality standards are maintained. think about tomorrow. for me, acting together also means a return to the g7 as a community of values. the russian violation of international law by annexing crimea has made further membership impossible. the g7 is a group of shared values. this too should be a message from the g7 summit in elmau.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, mr hogan, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we are voting today on the aid scheme for school milk and school fruit and vegetables. both are established programmes; the school milk programme has been in existence since 1977, and it is a very complicated application procedure. the school fruit scheme has been running since 2007. in total, we reach 30 million children aged between six and ten years old each year within the european union. and today we're deciding to merge both programs to cut red tape. as a person responsible here in the european parliament and also in local policy in europe , it is very important and necessary for practical reasons, in terms of implementation, to bring these measures together in a meaningful way. recent figures clearly show that 70 per cent of schoolchildren go to school without breakfast. in addition to distributing the products to the children in schools, it is very important to me personally to establish the knowledge of healthy nutrition here. it is particularly important that this nutrition education in schools can be undertaken not only by teachers but also by housewives and nutritionists. i hope that the european parliament will today vote in favour of this programme and i urge you, commissioner, to press for simplification and to implement it effectively in order to achieve real added value for the health and well-being of our children. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tarabella, and the other rapporteurs for their cooperation and good cooperation, and i hope that the vote will be a good one.
the commission has already done so. the epp group welcomes the merger of two independent school programmes. providing our children with fruit, vegetables and milk is an important task. i thank all those who have contributed. i would like to thank in particular sofia ribeiro, who has drawn up this report for the epp group. i am very sorry, mr tarabella, that the range of products is so limited. my group supports the motion by mrs köstinger and will certainly say more on this. moreover, scientific evidence shows that cocoa is a very valuable food. and that's why i don't understand why it's not on offer. europe, with its 28 member states, is far too diverse for us to offer such a small range of products. in my home country of bavaria, the school fruit and vegetable programme has been offered with great success. over 80% of primary schools have participated, 345 000 pupils receive free fruit and vegetables, and in future we want to offer dairy products too. it also helps shape the eating habits of our adults. and i think the most important thing now, commissioner phil hogan, is that the whole thing is being implemented very unbureaucratically. it cannot be that at the end of the day, a proof of use must be kept, whether each child has eaten the apple. i have every confidence in the european court of auditors to demand that. we must be very careful that a good approach is not ruined by bureaucracy. we in the epp group support these programmes and hope that they will be implemented well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think what we are discussing today is a good programme. and it is a european issue when it comes to the health of children in the european union. we want to help with more fruit and vegetables and dairy products in schools so that obesity -- a growing disease among children -- can really be tackled, that prevention can be done. i believe that mr tarabella has been very courageous in putting forward an important report and that we have agreed on good things which can then also lead to success. there will be less administrative burden, more money for milk 20 million and there will also be a common logo, so that we in the european union also have a common feeling that we are doing something good for the health of our children in schools.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. when you talk to children in schools and kindergartens and ask them if they have had any practical experience of europe, you often hear the word 'school fruit programme'. in my home state of saxony-anhalt and in germany, 95% of the participants are satisfied with this programme. it is most popular there. it is therefore good that we want to improve this programme. i think we have not yet reached the end of the road here. we need even less red tape. schools should be distributing fruit and milk instead of filling out forms for hours. i would also like to say that i think the programme belongs to the second pillar of the european agricultural policy, because it would provide more opportunities for regional development. so it turns out that this program is good, but it can be improved. we are already taking a step towards this today - thanks also to many useful discussions in the committee on agriculture - but we must not be afraid to take further steps. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr schulze, when you talk to the users in schools and kindergartens, they often complain about the bureaucratic burden. sometimes it seems that the pile of paper is bigger than the milk that is then drunk. do you agree with that?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have met many school representatives in the last few weeks and months, because i am new to this parliament and, of course, i have looked around at home and seen all that we have of europe. the second thing that they tell me, after they've told me before, this is a great program and it's going to benefit the kids, is that they showed me what forms all of them have to fill out. and i have to tell you, this was one of the first times that i really wondered how this was going to work, and i was really amazed that the people in these schools and kindergartens that are doing the program are still willing to do it, because sometimes the effort is really huge. i think we should keep working on that. but that is what many other members of this house have said today.
mr president, i would like to say a few words. i think it is a wonderful programme and when we had too many ... als wir viel zu viele landwirtschaftliche produkte hatten und wir aufgrund der sanktionen gegenüber russland darauf sitzengeblieben sind, dass man dann noch mal dazu aufgerufen hätte, dass obst und gemüse in die schulen geht, statt dass es verkommt – ich denke, das wäre ein ansatz gewesen. was wir hier haben, ist das ende einer entmündigung der eltern. die eltern sind in den letzten jahrzehnten schlichtweg nach und nach entmündigt worden. diese formen der entmündigung haben dann dazu geführt, dass gewisse kinder einfach nicht mehr ordnungsgemäß versorgt werden. jetzt rufen wir dazu auf, hier für essen in den schulen zu sorgen. das bedeutet, dass die eltern, die dafür eigentlich zuständig sind – und keine einzige regierung –, noch weiter entmündigt werden. ich denke, wir fangen hier im europäischen parlament an einer völlig falschen seite an. wenn familienpolitik auch hier im europäischen parlament möglich ist, dann sollten wir ganz woanders ansetzen und nicht bei der ernährung der kinder in den schulen.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. (the sitting was suspended at 6.40 p.m. and resumed at 7.00 p.m.)
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on european union development assistance to eritrea in the light of documented human rights violations (2015/2683 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i think i can endorse everything that has been said here, especially what mrs valenciano has just said. we're mostly dealing with the symptoms here again, in this case in eritrea. we are, of course, dealing with a corrupt, inhuman and dictatorial regime. i would urge that we look again at what sanctions we can still impose on this country. in particular, i believe that we need to engage where it really hits those people who are oppressing this country so personally. we should therefore do everything we can to target more closely the circle of those who have been subject to travel restrictions, the circle of those whose assets we are trying to freeze in the various countries, and the circle of those who are sending their relatives to elite european and american schools.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european union is faced with a real dilemma in eritrea, because on the one hand it is obvious that the violations of human rights, the restriction of press freedom and other democratic rights naturally make us question whether it makes sense to cooperate with such a country in the field of development aid. but on the other hand, i think there is also a consensus that - and the debate has shown this to some extent - we are of course very interested in providing development aid to people who have to live in difficult conditions, so that they have a prospect of staying in their country and not being lured by traffickers to the mediterranean. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money. that is why, commissioner, we must find a balanced answer. we cannot simply say that we are increasing the budget for development aid. but we must also ensure that the regime which is holding people in these conditions is also told clearly by us that we are taking measures elsewhere to improve the situation.
member of the commission.– mr president, i agree with parliament’s concerns about, and condemnations of, the dictatorship and human rights abuses in eritrea. we should bear in mind the very difficult context we are working in where we face two options: either we suspend all aid programmes; or we engage in better focusing our aid to reach those in most need. we are of the opinion that it is much better to continue to engage with eritrea through our different instruments. we will of course continue to follow closely the human rights situation in eritrea. i took good note of your calls and proposals to be taken on board when programming the national indicative programme for eritrea under the 11th european development fund in order to better assess the needs of the people and not the government, and to better address the root causes of migration. we also take due note of proposals on how to better use regional cooperation possibilities and on combining international or european sanctions vis-à-vis the regime in eritrea. we should never forget that our primary objective is to improve the livelihood of the population and thereby contribute to the stabilisation of eritrea.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the statements by the council and the commission on cyberattacks against the media a new level of cybersecurity threat (2015/2709 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i would like to start my intervention today by referring to the address we have heard this afternoon by his excellency the secretary-general of the united nations, mr ban ki-moon. surprisingly or not, the un secretary-general drew our attention to the growing concerns related to radicalisation, which is very relevant to the discussion we are about to have. it is also remarkable that our debate today takes place almost at the same moment as the un security council is holding an open debate on the protection of journalists in conflict situations. strong, professional and independent mass media are indispensable for effective democracy, economic growth and development across the globe. as early as 1946, at its very first session, the united nations general assembly adopted a resolution affirming that freedom of information is the cornerstone of all freedoms. the european union, as a union based on democratic values, fully subscribes to this principle – freedom of expression is amongst the fundamental values protected by article 2 of the treaty on european union. nonetheless, it is important to recall that the freedom of expression depends upon the safety of journalists and media professionals. freedom of expression, both offline and online, and strengthening the independence of the media are long-standing priorities of latvia. we promote them as a part of our presidency of the council of the european union, and in international organisations. unfortunately, cyber-attacks, including targeting the media, have become part of modern hybrid warfare and terrorist attacks. therefore, we need to mobilise all our instruments and combine all our efforts to minimise the risks of such attacks. today, i will pay particular attention to three specific aspects. first of all, cybersecurity, secondly, combating propaganda and radicalisation, and thirdly, a broader response to hybrid threats. first, in recent years, cybersecurity has become a matter of the highest political priority for the european union. given the very prominent role that the media, especially electronic media, play in the daily life of modern society, increasingly often they fall victim to cyber-attacks. hence, any attack against the media should be seen not only as an attack against a fundamental freedom; depending on the scale and damage caused by such an attack, it may be seen as an attack against critical infrastructure. the council has already come up with a number of initiatives with the aim of ensuring that the internet is open and secure. more initiatives are in the pipeline. in june 2013 the council adopted conclusions on the cybersecurity strategy of the european union where it recognised the need to put in place safeguards and take measures to protect the cyber-domain, in both the civilian and military fields, aiming at developing an eu response to cybersecurity incidents and challenges. the same year, together with the european parliament, we adopted the directive on attacks against information systems. this was a very important piece of legislation to respond to the increasing concern about terrorist or politically motivated cyber-attacks against information systems, which form part of the critical infrastructure of member states or of the union. this directive also identifies the trend towards dangerous and recurrent large-scale attacks against such systems or particular functions in the public or private sector. today we are working on another very important piece of legislation – the proposal for a directive on network and information security. this directive will enhance cybersecurity preparedness, capabilities at national level and cooperation between member states and across the eu. it will also stimulate a culture of risk management in the public and private sector. we are confident that the constructive work on the draft directive will allow a swift conclusion of the negotiations and a timely adoption. allow me also to mention briefly the importance of the review of the internal security strategy. the commission communication of last month on the european agenda on security prioritised combating terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime as interlinked priority areas with a strong cross-border dimension. the council is currently working on defining its immediate priorities on this subject. we look forward to working in close cooperation with the commission and the european parliament on concrete measures to be taken with the aim of further shaping this policy area. secondly, we should not forget that in modern-day hybrid warfare, the media can be both targets and weapons, victims and aggressors. for this reason, the discussion of cyber-attacks against the media goes hand-in-hand with another revived phenomenon – aggressive propaganda specifically targeting fundamental european values. we have been realistic in recognising that legislative work alone will not produce sufficient results. effective and creative practical preventive and counter-measures that go beyond the necessary legislative minimum are equally important. today the eu is faced with the reality that the media broadcasting for the european public are no longer there solely to inform, educate and entertain. some states or organisations increasingly use the media for the achievement of military and political goals, turning against the fundamental common european values, attempting to manipulate public opinion. today the media are being exploited to spread aggressive anti-european propaganda and to incite hatred. the council remains fully aware of and concerned by this dangerous phenomenon that poses a threat to european security and public order. discussions are ongoing as to what effective response mechanisms may be created. the council recognises the urgent need for further action addressing radicalisation at the eu, national and local levels. hence, europol has been tasked to set up an eu internet referral unit to target content promoting terrorism or violent extremism. thirdly, the existence of complex external threats to the security environment in europe should not be underestimated. we should therefore strive for better synergies and closer links between internal and external security, aiming at ensuring effectiveness in internal coordination and cooperation in areas such as cyber-defence and strategic communication. being guided by this logic, on 18 may this year we decided to join our efforts to work on a set of proposals to help counter hybrid threats and foster the resilience of the eu and its member states. the proposals will address the need for closer intra-eu and international cooperation with the aim of developing greater situational awareness and early-warning mechanisms for countering the hybrid warfare threats in areas such as cyber-defence, strategic communications, border security, energy security, and others. we expect to deliver the results by the end of 2015. i would like to conclude by underlining that today we live in a digital era, where virtual reality is no less real than the real world. for this reason, cyber-attacks should and must be seen to be as dangerous as attacks on real structures. the media increasingly often fall victim to such cyber-attacks, given that they rely on information technology and given the prominent role they play in modern society. therefore, if the 20th century was marked as an era when the fundamental principles of freedom of expression were written in stone, thus giving the media the platform for development, the 21st century is marked by the need to effectively respond to the emerging and growing new threats against media freedoms. we must spare no effort to protect our fundamental values in the digital environment. i thank you for your attention, and i look forward to listening to your views.
member of the commission.– mr president, the cyber-attack carried out on tv5monde in april was an attack on the values that we hold dear in the european union: freedom of speech, a free media and our ability to access information. this attack, as you know, was short-lived and did not cause serious harm, but it was very visible and serves as a reminder of the potential for cybercriminals to impact our lives. we need to defend ourselves better against this sort of attack, no matter who is responsible and what their motivation is. the benefits we enjoy from technology need to be protected against criminals and terrorists who want to undermine our values, spread their message or simply steal money. greater cybersecurity is something we can all contribute to – the european union, member states, companies and individuals. from the european union’s perspective, we are engaged in a wide range of activities to improve cybersecurity. only a few weeks ago, the commission published the european agenda on security. this document sets out three key transnational threats to be addressed in the security domain: terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime. the attack on tv5 was a cybercrime which tried to glorify terrorism and promote the nihilist message of isis, or da’esh. it is therefore at the heart of what we will prioritise in the coming years. on cybercrime, the agenda proposes reinforcing the capacity of law enforcement authorities, in particular through the european cybercrime centre of europol. it also proposes to address the obstacles to criminal investigations on cybercrime such as access to evidence. implementing existing legislation on attacks against information systems will be another priority. to combat terrorism, the agenda proposes to enhance the role of europol further, by establishing a european counter-terrorism centre. this will be a secure centre for information exchange among national law enforcement authorities. it will build on the successes of the european cybercrime centre. terrorists are exploiting the internet to spread their propaganda, radicalise and recruit, communicate, and plan and direct terrorist activity. in response to this worrying trend, the commission will launch an eu-level forum with the internet industry. the forum will look at how we can enhance our collective efforts in addressing these issues – both in terms of reducing accessibility to terrorist material and in countering the terrorist narrative online. europol will also establish an internet referral unit on 1 july to help member states identify terrorist material online and then refer it to the industry with a view to its swift removal. cooperation with the private sector is of critical importance, with public-private partnerships to structure a common effort to fight online crime. in the first half of 2016 the commission will propose establishing a public-private partnership on cybersecurity in the area of technologies and solutions for online network security. i would like to highlight the fact that the european union has already done a lot to address cybersecurity. i have already mentioned the european cybercrime centre, which was established within europol in 2013. it acts as a focal point in the european union’s fight against cybercrime. in 2013 the european union adopted a cybersecurity strategy. it aims to strengthen cyber resilience, reduce cybercrime and advance international cyberspace policy. finally, the european union agency for network and information security (enisa) also contributes to the european union’s response to cyber-security issues. it works towards a high level of network and information security. both terrorism and cybercrime are dynamic areas that require us to adjust our responses to stay ahead of the perpetrators. i have made clear that these are priority issues for the commission. i will be working to ensure that there is an effective contribution at european level to protect our societies and economies from these challenges.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the debate today on the attacks on french television channel tv5 is very thoughtful for all of us. we have heard a lot from the commission and the council about cybercrime and cyberattacks, and i think i can say, madam minister, that i am somewhat surprised at the positive words with which you have praised the contribution of the council, which - admittedly in a difficult situation in which you are in as president of the council - has unfortunately not made any substantial progress in the efforts that have been going on at european level for years here, in the last nine months in which we are negotiating in trilogue. these incidents that we are discussing today - whether it is tv5 or the cyberattack on the belgian newspaper le soir a few days later - show that if we in the european union were to succeed in increasing the resilience of critical infrastructure, we would not see such incidents on the scale we see today. because unfortunately, in the european union, in the continent of 500 million citizens, we still have a large number of companies, of infrastructures that are more or less unprepared to respond to such incidents. this can't be a sustainable condition in the long run. i think i can once again ask you very strongly - also on behalf of the whole house - to agree more clearly in the trilogue that we must move forward more quickly with this legislative instrument. it is simply not possible to explain in public why we have to negotiate for months and end up complaining about further incidents which we could have avoided if the legislation had been passed quickly. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, we should agree that we are not talking about 'anything cyber' but rather about the things that are: the threat to computer and it security from attacks on critical infrastructures such as the media, the belgian newspaper le soir, the french tv5 channel, the hacking of the bundestag, numerous companies, data theft, spying - whatever you want - attacks that criminals and the intelligence services of all continents are equally enthusiastic about and keenly interested in. hacking attacks happen all the time, and they target anything that's interesting. they're cheap, they're simple, and they're good for putting whatever it is in someone else's shoes. the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i think i have to say that we do not want to criminalize these people. i'm telling you: we need a whole new level of protection for cybersecurity everywhere. the council and the commission are still arguing about standards bodies, binding minimum standards and reporting obligations, partly because the state and the intelligence services are increasingly extending their arms to data. we don't have to invent anything new. we have a policy. we have had the moraes report for a year now, and we are calling for greater independence of the eu institutions and, incidentally, of the european it industry. there really has to be a point where intelligence agencies lower security standards, have their own backdoors in software, and security agencies demonize encryption. we demand the use of free and open source software everywhere and more money for research and innovation and not cutting back on horizon 2020. we're going to require encryption technologies. so i ask you to do, do, do, do! not talking today and talking tomorrow about the next attack, but actually finally starting something!
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, the recent attacks against the it system of tv5 are not the first of their kind. they are part of an ongoing threat to the free press, but there is still a lack of an open analysis of how we can make our media more resilient. as part of this analysis, european governments need to ask themselves whether their own actions are part of the problem. europe is still exporting surveillance software that has been used to suppress journalists in bahrain and morocco. european governments are participating in the sale of unknown security holes in software instead of reporting them publicly and making sure that they are fixed. that leaves software vulnerabilities that are also used in domestic media. legislation by member states against so-called hacker tools criminalises the study of these tools, which is a vital part of proper it security training. after the tv5 attack, the commission was quick to highlight the ongoing negotiations on the directive on network and information security as a response, including its possible extension. i would like to ask how we can come to an agreement on this directive and whether it needs to be extended in relation to some of the topics i have just mentioned. what we need is a clear commitment to a reliable and trustworthy it infrastructure policy, one that does not trade in short-term gains for secret services at the cost of the security of everybody else. if you want to protect the free press, then fight the introduction of government-mandated backdoors that can also be used by criminals, promote the use of open source software for all security-sensitive applications, present us with a legislative proposal for whistleblower protection and provide access to easy-to-use encryption technology for everybody, including journalists. then, perhaps, one day even the european parliament will manage to allow its members to encrypt their emails. i, for one, have not given up hope on that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm glad you're taking this topic today with conceptual thought, i think that's good. we have espionage, sabotage, data theft, which affects every second company today, according to a study by bitkom. this is an alarming result, and the mirror is reporting this week that in the united states, a hacker on a very ordinary passenger plane with his laptop connected to this box that controls the entertainment program, and by doing so, got into the controls of the engines. this means that the security authorities are sounding the alarm and are afraid of more such dramatic attacks, and the attack on tv5 is basically going in the same direction. all these examples are now dramatic, unsettling, frightening and present new challenges. the digitisation of infrastructure, economic value chains, and the environment not only opens up opportunities, but also poses risks. cyberattacks are ubiquitous, affecting all walks of life and can have the same impact as weapons attacks and the same collateral damage. but here, crime, war, terrorist attacks reach dimensions that demand entirely new answers. how are we going to guarantee our security in europe? we're not good enough on security here. we should not underestimate the power of cyberattacks: we need a new defence that safeguards our foundations. cybersecurity requires concerted action by business, politics and society at all levels. i am convinced that we need more than just the nis directive. it's important that we act quickly. we're lagging behind the technology and the hackers, and we need something like security by design or security by default.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. child and forced labour is a cruel crime. child marriage abruptly ends childhood, school and, above all, ease. child and forced labour. forced marriage usually means the first rape on the wedding day. in any case, it is a violent and involuntary entry into a completely unequal marriage. this marriage can never be partnership. such a marriage can never be voluntary, and above all it can never be good. girls and women who are married against their will often face lifelong sexual and domestic violence. we know there are three groups of perpetrators. these three groups of perpetrators are not only found in third world countries but also here in europe. there are men and women who arrange these marriages. and there are men who are grooms themselves. these people should be prosecuted and punished. there are people who suspect forced marriage but do not act. they need to be enlightened, and they need to be held accountable. and there's the society, there's the politicians, and the politicians know exactly what's going on, they know there are victims, and they're not protecting them. these are for shaking. i am addressing you today, the commission. we need reliable data in europe. we need to have prosecutions in all the member states. we need backup systems. we need a legal age for the first possibility of marriage. we need an understanding of the victims and above all we need the ratification of the istanbul convention. we need you today!
in writing. girls' childhoods end with involuntary marriage immediately. in our understanding of childhood and adolescence, the right to physical and mental self-determination at any age is one of the most important fundamental rights. but many girls are denied this right by being forced into child marriages. this means that these girls are subjected to sexual and other physical violence in their homes, not to mention that any right to a self-determined life is violently taken away. we must act. i call on the commission to take the important steps. the european union must also be able to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. but for that we also need a legal age of protection at european level, before which no marriages may be contracted. i also call on the commission to support initiatives against forced marriage in all its relations with third countries. but above all, it is also important to ensure that girls and women are empowered in europe and in third countries. to achieve this, they must have unhindered access to education, training and the labour market everywhere, in order to have the chance to lead an economically independent life.
in writing. ‒ i support the european commission's proposal to focus on two 'core products', namely fresh fruit and vegetables (including bananas) and milk. european action will be needed to tackle poor dietary habits and childhood obesity more effectively and to strengthen the educational aspects of the two programmes. it is important that children in school are encouraged to eat healthily and to develop healthy eating habits.
in writing. ‒ with the two support programmes for school fruit and school milk, the eu has successfully promoted healthy eating among our pupils in the past. this is important because what we eat when we are young already affects our health in old age. a balanced diet may help to reduce the risk of diabetes. i have therefore advocated the extension of these programmes. however, it was important to me to combine the two grants which had been running in parallel. this significantly reduces the administrative burden for the eu and member states. school fruit and school milk are now supported by an additional 20 million euro from the eu budget.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament voted only once on the decision to open interinstitutional negotiations on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in educational establishments and to grant the corresponding mandate. the eu feels it must now also address this issue because children are reportedly eating less fruit, vegetables and dairy products. i voted against this proposal because i believe that parents should be concerned about their children's nutrition and that they should be happy to do so. as a child, i was always very happy about my break bread that my mother brought me. children should not be deprived of this joy, nor should parents. secondly, education and health policy are not in any case within the eu's remit. in germany this is not the responsibility of the federal government, but of the individual länder, how can it be the responsibility of brussels? thirdly, this proposal does not comply with the principle of subsidiarity. the eu is committed to this on every occasion, but in practice it always acts against it!
in writing. ‒ the principle of subsidiarity is part of the eu's founding philosophy. the fact that even fruit and milk in schools are now to be subject to european regulation is a mockery in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that one of the most important tasks is to promote health, especially in children and adolescents. if we now combine the two programmes on school milk and school fruit, we will create the basis for an educational programme on good nutritional habits. because what we learn as children about good nutrition is something that we will carry with us for the rest of our lives. i am particularly pleased that the programme is now being linked to other educational activities, such as visits to farms. in my own state, rhineland-palatinate, the state government has been involved in the school fruit programme for many years and has had good success with it. i particularly welcome the fact that we voted together against amendment no 49, which would have allowed the sale of cocoa beverages, strawberry milk and other sugar-sweetened milk products. that's exactly what we don't want. we want full-quality and healthy products for children and young people, not sweet and coloured milk.
in writing. ‒ europe big in big and small in small was the guiding principle for a reform-oriented eu. but this resolution proves otherwise. brussels even regulates the school meals. the institutional governance of values and standards in school feeding is particularly remarkable because the eu has several responsibilities. the eu is violating parental rights. the eu regulates what schoolchildren should eat and drink. the eu is distorting the market for agricultural products. the eu is interfering in the sovereign arrangements of germany, because schools are a matter for the länder. no one can prove that the administrative burden is actually reduced in everyday life. that is why i am voting against this resolution.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday, 27 may 2015.
i am not going to go into detail. before we get down to business, an important note. this friday marks the 30th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of accession of spain and portugal to the european union. this was a significant step 30 years ago, when two nations that had suffered under dictatorships for decades joined the democratic community of europe. thirty years later, not every promise and wish has been fulfilled. but it is quite certain that democracy has been strengthened and stabilized in these countries, and that the struggle against the forces of dictatorship and the backward classes has been won. these days, especially in the case of spain and portugal, we are faced with the fact that the promises made by the european union that prosperity must be combined with welfare for many and not with wealth for a few have been called into question. i believe that in this house, across all political lines, it is the common will of all members to ensure that, 30 years after this accession, we are keeping this very promise that the single market of the european union, the political and economic strength of our community - especially after the great sacrifices made by the people of spain and portugal - will lead to more prosperity for many and, above all, to work for young people.
the minutes of the meeting of 27 may 2015 are approved.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 4 june 2015 in accordance with rule 152 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. i would like to ask the commissioner what he thinks of the proposal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to ask on behalf of the epp group that we look at the situation in romania in the coming hours and days. official investigations by the public prosecutor's office were opened against the head of the local government, ponta. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the parliamentary majority of the socialists in the romanian parliament is currently blocking the clarification of these 17 concrete points, although frans timmermans, the responsible vice-president of the european commission, has made it clear that he has great confidence in the romanian investigative authorities. we in the epp group respect the sovereign decision of the parliament in romania. however, we believe that all citizens expect an explanation of these allegations. in addition, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the romanian minister of justice has recently said that all those who might want to take to the streets and demonstrate are threatened with investigation, perhaps even imprisonment. the epp group considers it unacceptable that people are being intimidated and that the right to demonstrate is being restricted. that is why we as the european parliament must speak about this. we believe that the libe committee should deal with this and then the european parliament should also debate this issue with a resolution. we are very concerned as the epp group.
ladies and gentlemen, i have several different word messages now. we are discussing the agenda of the plenary and not that of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. that is why i have the impression from the epp and s&d spokesmen that the majority in this house believe that we should ask the libe committee to take up the matter. i shall therefore ask mr moraes to put this matter on the agenda of the next libe committee meeting.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i think that this is a matter which we should discuss at the conference of presidents, even though i have now heard the consensus of the two colleagues, because it is a serious matter. the best way to consult is usually decided at the conference of presidents.
i'm sure we can do that extra, mrs. harms. but i also understood the motion to mean that i had been asked to address the libe committee. i will. we can do it and you will certainly do it. but you will still be addressing the conference of presidents on thursday. (calling) i'll take that. before you feel any more offended, we'll do both. i shall put it on the agenda of the conference of presidents on thursday and we shall inform the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. double stitches hold better than one. i cannot accept any further comments on this subject. mr. jurek, would you like to talk about something else?
- i'm not going to die. we are on the agenda for this plenary session. if you want to put something on the agenda, you have to say so. we are not here to debate a general question.
the following amendments were proposed to the draft work programme: monday: no changes. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work, and that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to asbestos at work.
since no one wishes to speak against the motion, i shall now put to the vote mr guerrero's motion for a postponement. (parliament adopted the resolution) wednesday: the efdd group has asked for the debate on the lange report on ttip to continue in the afternoon.
we have something in common. so you want to start at 8:00 instead of 9:00. the most extensive application is that of the early riser guerrero. i shall now put this motion to the vote. (parliament adopted the resolution) the green group has asked for the debate on the request for an oral answer to the council on sport and human rights in connection with the european games in baku to be closed by a resolution.
we'll take that under advisement, as always. but you know that in the case of voting by name or electronically verifying a vote, we have the same problem every time: colleagues have put the card in the wrong place, and the machine does not work. i've seen it before. i am very sorry, but i have no other choice but to establish the electronic voting. that is why i keep asking: did everyone vote? i am always criticized for this, because then others say: you wait so long because you want a certain majority to come out. i know all that, but i can't change it in retrospect. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr czesław adam siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council fixing the adjustment rate for direct payments provided for in regulation (eu) no 1306/2013 for the calendar year 2015 (com ((2015) 0141 - c8-0083/2015 - 2015/0070 ((cod)) (a8-0174/2015).
member of the commission.– mr president, my brief intervention will not take long. as everybody knows and as was agreed in the cap reform, the commission has to propose each year a regulation that fixes the rate of this financial discipline for direct payments. the present proposal for a reduction of 1.393% is needed to finance the crisis reserve in 2016 of eur 441.6 million. i am pleased that parliament and the council are both supporting the proposal, and on that basis i believe we will reach a timely adoption of the proposal, which has been outlined very carefully and very well by the rapporteur, before the end of june.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. the common agricultural policy has been developing more and more towards free markets in recent years. the alignment, together with the widespread decoupling of direct payments and a move towards more entrepreneurial farming, has presented farms with major challenges. this orientation also entails greater risks for our farming families, especially for our family farms. these are far more than just agricultural production facilities. family farms provide millions of jobs in rural areas and preserve the cultural landscapes of europe's regions. the social fabric of the villages can only be maintained by farming. i am thinking here of the volunteer fire brigades, for example, or the many activities of associations with farmers. the citizens of the member states want agricultural structures and agricultural products based on family farming. these are some of the reasons why a pure market economy cannot exist without safeguards for this sector. we very much welcome the creation of a crisis fund, which is also urgently necessary and right. we have had this reserve before. modulating appropriations were deducted from farmers, but only from the amount of eur 5 000 in direct payments. this margin is now to be reduced. it is not enough to have a clear picture of the way in which the money is spent and how the funds withheld are actually used. however, the current situation as a result of the russia embargo also shows that political decisions can create immense market pressure and distortions. and not only money from farming families should be used here, but also funds from the general budget.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 9 june 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs maria noichl, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the eu strategy on equality between women and men for the period after 2015 (2014/2152 (ini)) (a8-0163/2015).
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. before i say a few words about the eu's strategy for equality between women and men after 2015, i would like to thank all those who have helped to put a good, balanced strategy in place. the report is a welcome addition to the commission's work on the subject of the european year of the environment. a warm thanks also to the committee's secretariat the cooperation was truly exemplary. the strategy has a big goal: to move gender equality in europe in the right direction. this equality is already enshrined in the first european treaties, but unfortunately everyday life in europe is different. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i see four specific objectives. in europe, 500 million people live in very different situations: young and old, in families and as singles, with and without disabilities, with and without european citizenship. a key objective of our strategy must be to take account of this diversity and to keep an eye on everyone, really everyone. a second point: a good equality policy is recognised by the fact that the issues cannot be considered in isolation and individually, but always depend on each other. therefore, an important objective of the strategy is to reveal the relationships between the thematic areas and to develop an overall strategy. growth and employment are important issues, but we must not allow them to distract us from other issues: issues of violence, health, the media, work, time, finance and so on. the eu must also always promote the values of equality in its external relations. a third point: effective equality policy must always be measured by four things: an honest analysis of the situation, the recognition of progress, the identification of problems and then the presentation of very concrete solutions. one of the aims of my report is to make realistic proposals and suggestions by taking an honest look at the realities of life. fourthly, responsible gender equality policy does not promise quick results. it takes time to change attitudes. a very important objective of my report is to recognise subsidiarity and to present the political possibilities in a very differentiated and clear way. best practice models are particularly important here to provide input to member states and to support them in their own way. ladies and gentlemen, together with the shadow rapporteurs, we have succeeded in putting all these objectives into the report. it contains a large number of suggestions, ideas and ideas from european citizens. europe is a community of values. the adoption of the gender equality strategy is a step in the right direction. and we are going to do it together, with all the women and men of europe. (applause from the centre)
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, gender quality is not just the cherry on the cake of democracy: it is the very fundament of democracy and a founding principle of the european union. without full access for women to economic independence, without equal representation of women in our decision-making structures, without women having power over their own bodies, we will not reach full equality. the european parliament cannot merely claim this; we need to act and to propose legislation to really implement this equality, including basic rights such as sexual and reproductive rights. when we say ‘my body, my choice’ this statement means much more than just deciding in relation to our reproductive organs. it means empowerment for all women, reclaiming the power over their own bodies, reclaiming a power and a right that we hold, but that have been taken away from us in the last hundreds of years – a right that is so simple and so clear that it makes me sad that we still have to fight for it today. to those on the right of the house, i would say this: it is simply untrue constantly to claim that asking for sexual and reproductive rights is promoting abortion. the exact opposite is true. asking for sexual and reproductive rights means giving women back the power over their own bodies. it means fighting against the fact that, still today, 68 000 women die in unsafe and illegal abortions each year. i tell you here and now that if you want to fight against abortion, do not fight us – do not fight the women asking to have control over their bodies. fight for the empowerment of women; fight for sex education; fight for free access to contraception; fight for a society where women can make choices; fight for sexual and reproductive rights – because abortions, especially in illegal and unsafe surroundings, are much more frequent in countries with very restrictive laws on abortion, where women do not hold the right over their own body and where they do not have access to contraception. so colleagues, please vote in favour of the initial report as proposed by ms noichl, and empower women to have a right over their own bodies. when we talk about women, we need to see the whole picture. without acknowledging the diversity of our struggles, we will never reach full emancipation. lesbian women, women of colour, trans women, women with disabilities, poor women, young and old women – all must have their needs and demands reflected in this joint strategy for gender equality post 2015. and yes, we will also need male allies, because this struggle is not only the cherry on the cake: as i said, it is a struggle that will change our entire societies for all of us, making them more just, more inclusive and more resilient. if we want to be successful we cannot ask only for the cherry on the cake, and we cannot ask only for a bigger share of the cake. we need to fight for the whole bakery. let us build an equal, inclusive and diverse society. let us not only make this strategy a cornerstone for women’s rights and emancipation: let us go further, creating a comprehensive post-2015 strategy that will mainstream our demands in all fields of european union politics.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so after estrella and tarabella, we have the noichl report. i would like to quote paragraph 60 which says, in its literal sense, that the european parliament calls on the european commission to introduce sex education programmes in schools. could it be that some of you here have had a little too much sex education and a little too little basic european union competence? schools are the responsibility of the member states alone and no one else, especially not the european commission! and then, of course, there's the sex education. should the framework for educational institutions be set out in the following, according to the standards of sexual education in europe, by the world health organization, regional office for europe? i quote the teachings from page 42: develop positive attitudes toward the socially constructed gender called gender and early childhood masturbation. this is recommended for the age group 0-4 years, 0-4! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm glad you came. i would ask you to strengthen parental rights where you are responsible. strengthen and promote the family if you are responsible for it. but in god's name, keep your hands off the children! the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the eu parliament recommends that family law should also be applied to single parents, because of the changing concept of the family. again, family policy is a national responsibility! but let me ask you this: does this mean family law for single parents, meaning marriage without a partner, marriage for all, marriage alone? it's getting crazy! it is good that opposition is growing here in parliament and in the streets.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. equality between men and women is a very important issue. and it has been said: there is also a great deal to be done. think of the wage gap 16% across the european union between men's and women's wages , think of the old age poverty of women, think of the difficult issue of violence against women. so there's a lot to do. i would have liked to have supported mrs noichl's report, especially since it is her first report. but i cannot do that because there is a lot in the report that does not reflect my views. i would therefore like to make a strong appeal for the alternative resolution of our group. the report deals with issues which are clearly the responsibility of the european member states: family planning and abortion are not european issues but are matters for the member states, just as health and education are not european issues but are matters for the member states. not every issue in europe is also an issue for europe. i cannot therefore support the report, but i hope that we will also have a majority tomorrow on the alternative resolution. the european union has many tasks and much work to do in this area too. for example, in the fight against trafficking in women, in the fight against forced prostitution. ladies and gentlemen, it is a disgrace what is happening in our member states in this sector before our very eyes. we are all called upon to do so, the european commission is called upon to take a massive stand against organized crime and organized trafficking in the interests of our women and to take action. but please let the member states do the homework for which they are better suited and also better responsible! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i can make it short: i remain of the view that there are matters which fall exclusively within the national competence of the member states. and even if it is a problem which we have identified as such here in the european parliament, that does not change the question of competence. the problems that have to be solved in the member states must be dealt with by the member states. we cannot replace and undermine our national parliaments at european level, but that is a matter for the member states, and it is up to the individual countries to take care of that. i therefore think it is right to refer to this in our alternative resolution, in which we have also dealt with many individual questions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. the commission's proposal is very clear. i have spelled it out for you because it seems to me that the noichl report is further proof that subsidiarity is a difficult concept for many when it comes to the enforcement of interests that are sometimes far from vital. instead of focusing on what is really important in the debate on gender strategy, on what europe can do to promote equal opportunities for women and men, for parents and the childless, you are drifting and getting lost in the abstractions of european competences. i wonder who the gender whisperer is. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i repeat, take it to your constituents. i say, good luck and god bless. the epp and ecr have jointly opposed your report in amendment no 1 to an alternative resolution. i would like to ask you again to support this alternative resolution tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i read yesterday about a female editor in saudi arabia who has many people under her, many employees, but she's not allowed to drive and she has to ask her husband if she wants to go on a business trip. fortunately, we no longer have such conditions in europe. but that doesn't make us all right. as long as it is not taken for granted in the european union that men and women have equal access to all areas - i emphasize: men and women - we have not yet achieved equality and we must write equality reports. the fact is that this access is not yet there. we know men and women are different. in private life, it's a good complement, and we're also naturally socializing. but in economics and politics, it is not yet the case. just because men and women are different and have such different qualities, we should also use them together. we saw: an economy can work better when you have mixed teams. why don't we do that? why are there still too few women in politics? and as long as that's the case, we really need to see that we can be more successful, and do more. a pay gap i.e. unequal pay for equal work is unlikely to be unfair, and it cannot exist at all. we must fight this at all costs. fathers and mothers want to reconcile family and work. it is sometimes even more difficult for fathers who want to work part-time to actually do so. we do not want any discrimination, either against women or men. and the worst of all is violence against women. this is something we also need to do internationally, especially in the case of genital mutilation and violence against women in war. the report contains many good points, so please vote in favour of it tomorrow.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mrs maria noichl, for her very good report. when i listen to some of the discussions, i feel like i'm in the middle ages. i have the impression that subsidiarity is being pushed forward. for too long we have heard the fine words and promises of ending discrimination against women, particularly in the labour market. but not enough happened. the alternative proposal put forward by the conservative members seems to me to be pure cosmetic. in reality, it is still a matter of being a man or a woman, of having a good job, of being in a management position, of having a precarious employment relationship and of earning money. women are neither more stupid nor less educated than men, and if you add family work, women work a lot more. in the past, it has been the eu level that has repeatedly promoted positive initiatives for equality for women in the member states. but that commitment has clearly waned. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. europe must actively tackle these problems, as it does in other policy areas, for example in tackling youth unemployment. have measures to reduce the gender pay gap fallen victim to the crisis or even to competitiveness? women are more affected by old age poverty than the average, they have lower earnings, less opportunities for advancement. and the lack of reconciliation between work and childcare or care has something to do with the fact that women are actually worse off in the labour market. what we need are binding targets within the eu 2020 strategy, especially on the labour market. equality is not a privilege, equality is a fundamental right. europe must also take care of that!
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i do not know whether you have read the report by the epp and the ecr. but what i would be interested in is that we are constantly talking about a wage gap of 16%. did you know that mothers have a 40% pay gap? has this 40% pay gap been taken into account in any way in mrs noichl's report? or is motherhood something that belongs in the middle ages?
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. when women were given the vote, was it gender ideology, or was it progress? when women were allowed to run an account alone, was it gender ideology, or was it progress? when marital rape was finally criminalized, was it gender ideology, or was it progress? these thoughts came to my mind today when i really had to hear here words that i thought were long gone. i have an appeal to you, and i appeal very clearly to the epp and to other conservatives in this house. i appeal to you: be honest with your constituents! be honest with me. it is an own-initiative motion, not a legislative motion! be honest with me. it is not immediately transposed into national law, but it is a message. it's a message that comes from this house. and be honest, don't say things that are never in the report. i've heard the word "surrogate" a few times today. at no point and at no time was surrogacy mentioned in the meetings of the rapporteurs or written into the report. be honest about it. i've seen today that the ideology is on your side, not ours. but i also have an appeal to all the colleagues in this house: the report was adopted by a large majority, with 20 votes in favour and 12 against. it is no longer my report alone, but our report. i would appeal to you to reject the epp alternative resolution tomorrow and to vote on the report which has been jointly developed over months. i would like to make an appeal to you, commissioner, that you take this report as a basis and then you start the work in your own house. then the work will begin in your house, so that the commission can come up with a strategy. and i want to pledge from this side - from my side, but also from the whole femm committee - all the support you need. the report here, which is being adopted by the citizens of europe, is the first step. the second step is the report that comes from your house. i wish we could make the first move tomorrow, and then it's in your hands.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr gabrielius landsbergis, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the state of eu-russia relations (2015/2001 (ini)) (a8-0162/2015).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. many things have been bad in relations with russia for years and are rising higher and higher: to reverse this process, we need trust building instead of self-righteousness and big power greed, we need empathy instead of emotion or political fog candles, we need a significant increase in collective discussion and, above all, cooperation instead of further spirals of escalation or exclusion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are important political axioms against which a report on the question of how to proceed in relations with russia should be measured. that is precisely what the rapporteur is not doing. it is also a question of the need to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of human rights. the european union must not be allowed to play the role of a parliamentary democracy, but must be able to play a role in the political life of the country. the report should obviously not seek to find a way out of the impasse of relations, but to discipline governments and at the same time help to promote integration processes. in this sense, the assessment made by parliament's services in rejecting amendments is to be accepted. unfortunately, this is not a strategic ini report, because we need a change of strategy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. mr scholz, you too are one of those who have repeatedly asked in germany in recent days, around the elmau summit, whether european policy towards russia, the international policy of democratic governments, is not an insult to president putin. this is a psychological argument in response to what the european union has done so far. what did we do and why did we do it? something really catastrophic has happened in ukraine since last spring. the country has not only lost a large part of its territory a large part of its industrial base has been destroyed but in this country far more than 5000 people have died, there are tens of thousands of people injured and crippled, we have thousands of traumatised children who have been living for months in the basements of donetsk and luhansk. although a plane carrying many western europeans was also shot down, we as the european union did not respond militarily and as a great power, but we responded with economic sanctions, diplomacy and negotiations. and this is extremely important for the european union and its self-image, this is a change for the better and a change that is true to the idea of soft power and has nothing whatsoever to do with these big power ideas that you just described. the minsk agreement is the only relevant achievement so far, based on these other foreign policy ideas of the european union. and that is why, in order to continue this attempt to help bring peace back to eastern ukraine, the most important thing for me in this report by mr landsbergis is that we do not abandon the sanctions, but that we link them in a comprehensible way, and indeed in a reliable way for all concerned, to the implementation of the minsk agreements. and at that point, the next summit must be very consistent. it is not always a question of whether we need more or less sanctions. the point is that we must strengthen our diplomacy and our negotiations with this idea of economic sanctions as an alternative to military escalation. ladies and gentlemen, i think we should also talk about ourselves and other big changes. i think donald tusk was right when he proposed the energy union as a response to the dependence on russia. however, what we have so far is not the grand strategic plan that could make us more independent. the president of the commission has already said that he will not be present.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is in the interest of the european union and russia to have good relations with each other. it is in our political interest to have good relations to ensure peace and freedom, and it is in our economic interest to have good relations. the european union is at your disposal to do so. there are concrete proposals for free trade areas, the resumption of the partnership agreement, the modernisation agreement. because russia is in a catastrophic economic situation because of its own bad decisions. but these relations can only be maintained if international law is respected. if we do not accept the principle which has been european law since the helsinki treaty, namely the territorial integrity of a country and the sovereignty of a people, we shall not get anywhere. ukraine has taken a pro-european course in every election since the early 1990s, with 70, 80% of the population voting for it. and we are taking this pro-european course because this country wants to follow the path of freedom, as other european countries have done. poland's path is an example for ukraine. today, ukraine has four times less gdp than poland, although in 1990 it had the same. that is why russia can have relations and the sanctions can be lifted if it complies with minsk and thus creates the conditions for the restoration of international law. international law is our foundation for europe ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. you have very good relations, including open channels of communication with russia, moscow, the kremlin. in the last few days, have you criticized president putin for signing a decree that provides for the most severe penalties if the names of soldiers who have died in action outside russia are published in russia? that is obviously something to criticize. you can do that with your relationships. you are?
i have to say, mrs harms! i think you should repeat the question to mr ransdorf. i didn't think it was the interpreters. but i am very sorry that mr ransdorf - i almost want to say in the best possible way - did not give an answer to the question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. language is an important aspect of diplomacy. in this respect, i think it is very positive that the landsbergis report is a little less agitated than the previous report on russia. unfortunately, the situation has not been very pleasant in the last few days. after the russian side revealed its list of restrictions on entry into russia, there was a great outcry here in the eu. but it must have been clear to everyone that russia would respond to the western entry bans with similar countermeasures. the existence of such a list had been known for months. sanctions always hurt both sides. we see this in the economic sanctions currently imposed by the eu. according to russian data, trade with the eu has decreased by 10% in the last year, and with germany by 18%. it's costing us a lot of jobs. perhaps this would be understandable if at the same time us imports to russia had not increased by 6%. it is clear that the damage is very great if the sanctions, which are also being called for by the united states in particular, are implemented but market shares are lost to the united states.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by mr landsbergis is still unbalanced, despite some weakening. he is not trying to mediate or to balance, but he is adding fuel to the fire. how can we fail to show on both sides the violations of the minsk ceasefire? how can we fail to draw conclusions from the odessa massacre in such a report? how is it possible that we are dealing with associative terms here and say that a plane fell from the sky, and not say that to this day it is not clear who was responsible for the regrettable downing of this flight? we should not respond to provocations that we ourselves have provoked. it is not possible that we impose entry bans from the eu and then get upset about russian entry bans.
- i'm not going to. perhaps i should point out on behalf of the president that the russian ambassador has not been denied access to the house. this has been misreported in some german-language media.
i have corrected a misinterpretation by one colleague here in the house. you have read the correct text, and the correct text confirms what i have just said.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, let me express my disappointment that only 10% of the members of the european parliament are taking part in this debate today, that the council has not even come and that no group leader other than mrs harms is taking part in this debate. i think the opportunities we have are not being used if we have a debate like this. perhaps it is because the report and the debate do not bring much new information. i'm sorry to hear that. we would have liked to have discussed something new here - and i am sure the rapporteur would have done the same - if there had been a positive development. let me just make two or three brief points. one is the issue of sanctions. of course, sanctions only make sense if we support them until the situation improves. there is no such improvement, and that is why there is no reversal of sanctions at the moment. on the other hand, it is also clear that this can be a two-way street, following the motto 'more for more and less for less'. if things go in the right direction, we will want to remove these sanctions as well. if it goes the wrong way, it won't be the last sanction we've put in place. the blacklist is clearly a step in the wrong direction. i very much agree with what the colleagues are saying. i'm going to add , and we're probably not all going to agree on that. the inclusion of members of the duma on the sanctions list was also a mistake, perhaps the only mistake i can see in the sanctions. it is not right in the long term that the lavrov, putin and medvedev should be available for dialogue, but not the parliamentary dialogue. and so we should consider how we can maintain this parliamentary dialogue in the future at a level which is appropriate and does not contradict what has been said so far. the last point: i believe that we need disarmament - that is provided for in the minsk agreements. and we want this minsk agreement to be respected. this applies to all sides, including the kiev side, but first and foremost to those who have no business in this country, and those are foreign soldiers.
thank you, ladies and gentlemen. we now have a very long debate with a lot of blue cards at the beginning. i can only do a very abbreviated catch-the-eye procedure. catch the eye
ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for this long, lively and interesting debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 11 june. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
ladies and gentlemen, dear mr. president of mongolia, dear mr. elbegdorj, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is a great honour and a great pleasure for us to welcome you to the european parliament today. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. mongolia, your country, is a country of an ancient and very rich civilization and a country of a very young and very vibrant democracy. twenty-five years ago, your country held its first free and democratic elections. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now you can tackle the economic and sustainable development of your country with great strength and with broad support. the geographical situation of your country between the two great and powerful states - the russian federation and the people's republic of china - is certainly not always easy, as we have just discussed in our bilateral conversation. the achievements of mongolia are all the more impressive, not least because of what you call the third neighbour policy. mongolia is certainly a beacon in the region. that is why it is particularly important to us - and we are pleased, mr president - that your country will host the next asem summit in june 2016. this asem summit is certainly essential to build bridges between europe and asia and to find common solutions to the many regional and global problems. i'm sure we can make great progress in your nation's capital. i hope, on behalf of my colleagues, that by then the partnership and cooperation agreement between mongolia and the european union will have been ratified by all parliaments. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i would like to welcome you to the european parliament.
president of mongolia.– mr president, i would like to begin with something simple: thank you. thank you, mr president, for inviting me. thank you, members of the european parliament, for giving me this opportunity to share my views with you, the distinguished representatives of 28 sovereign states of this great continent – europe. i am the youngest of eight sons. for generations, my family lived as nomadic herdsmen in the western highlands of my country, in the ranges of the altai mountains. my mother and father never dreamed that, one day, their youngest son would speak from this respected podium to the most caring hearts of democracy: the european parliament. (applause)but this is not about me. i am here to speak for my people about my country. i am proud of my motherland, mongolia. i am proud of our history, our culture, our traditions and the natural beauty that surrounds us. but most of all i am proud of our spirit and our values. the brief story of my country’s modern history and our journey to democracy will sound familiar to many of you. in the early 1920s, mongolia came under communist rule, which lasted for seven decades. during the stalinist purges one out of every six adult men was killed. more than 700 buddhist temples were burnt to ash. the foreign and domestic agents of the communist experiment targeted the very spirit of our nation. but they were not destined to win, not destined to last forever. in the end, our will to live free prevailed. (applause) after many years, our defining moment finally arrived. on the cold morning of 10 december 1989, we organised the first unauthorised public street meeting in our capital city, ulaanbaatar. i was fortunate enough to be chosen by my fellow democracy fighters to moderate that historic event. ‘we have remained silent for a long time: this is our time to work; this is the time for reform’ – these were my opening remarks. that morning, we demanded our rights – of freedom of assembly, of speech, of religion, and freedom of the press. we demanded the right to create a multiparty system, conduct democratic elections, and begin market reforms. it was the beginning of my country’s journey to liberty, justice and openness. that was a tough journey to embark upon. during that time, our neighbour – the soviet union – was intact. its grip and control was still tight, powerful and overwhelming. in our other neighbour’s capital, the tiananmen square massacre had happened. its shockwave was still fresh and influential. in mongolia, the old regime was stubborn. the old mindset was strongly resistant to change. we organised many meetings, demonstrations and hunger strikes. we tried to eliminate every reason for violence. we always called for compromises, for peaceful solutions. indeed, mongolia’s democratic revolution was totally peaceful. not a single shot was fired. not a single window was shattered. not a single drop of blood was shed. (applause)a month from now, mongolia will celebrate the 25th anniversary of its first full democratic, multiparty election. since that historic day on 29 july 1990, we have had full-scale democratic elections for parliament seven times and for the presidency six times. and since that day, a quarter of a century ago, we have transformed from a dictatorship to a democracy, from being one of the most isolated, closed communist regimes in the world, to one of the most open. today we have a dynamic market economy, and a vibrant, plural, creative society. our per capita gdp has increased more than 20-fold. our private sector now produces more than 80% of our gross domestic product. i want to talk about some of the virtues at the core of our young democracy, virtues we hope to strengthen in the coming years through cooperation with our partners in europe and elsewhere. individual freedom is the cornerstone of our democracy. mongolians love freedom because we have earned it through hard work. government in a free country is not the property of any specific group of people. in order to sustain a healthy society, we must keep nurturing and challenging it every day. the beauty of freedom is that it is a learning process. it is the healing system of human society. we can make mistakes, but mistakes will not cost us our lives, as in a dictatorship. that is why we love freedom. (applause) mongolia is among the top countries in the world in terms of the number of media tools used per capita. we have only three million citizens, but it feels like there are three million journalists too! this is great. people have the right to question authority. transparency and interaction make us stronger. that is why mongolia is proud to be chairing the freedom online coalition. we will use this opportunity to promote access to the internet for all. we will support the un’s effort to create a comprehensive convention on internet freedom. as our society becomes more open, we increasingly hear voices concerned for safety. but we should not depart from universal values in response to today’s security concerns. we see that violent extremism continues to evolve and threaten but, by contrast, our commitment to freedom, tolerance and peace must stay unbending. i therefore applaud the european parliament for its brilliant initiative to adopt a charter of fundamental digital rights in the 21st century. let us continue to work together to advance this great digital revolution. (applause) i want to say a few words on elections, government and accountability. new technologies have been vital to the health of our democracy. in our last three elections we used electronic voting machines and a biometric voter registration system. these fraud-prevention measures assure voters that their participation will make a difference. of course, instilling confidence in government goes beyond elections. mongolians are deeply interested in how the government spends their hard-earned tax money. to ensure transparency, we have developed a very effective monitoring system – the ‘glass account law’ – that mandates online disclosure of public expenditure. one challenge we face is the growing size of government. in response to new challenges, government functions tend to increase and government becomes bigger, more bureaucratic, and more distant. technology has the opposite tendency: it becomes smaller, more functional, and more user-friendly over time. to tackle this, i put forward a smart government initiative, which incorporates new technologies to allow our government constantly to adapt to new challenges. turning briefly to corruption: corruption is an infectious disease that grows in darkness. it destroys the fundamentals of a fair, just and secure society. it scares away honest partners and investors. it robs people of opportunity and devours the fruits of their hard work. to exterminate this evil, we must shine a light on corruption – ensuring that it is exposed and that those responsible for it do not escape justice. i am proud to say that, in just four years, mongolia has risen from 120th to 80th place on transparency international’s corruption index. we still have work to do, but we are making good progress in cleaning up our beloved country. we have also made progress in the sphere of human rights. the foundation of justice is respect for human dignity, central to which is the sanctity of human life. under no circumstances is capital punishment acceptable. (applause)before 18 june 2009, mongolia was regarded by amnesty international as one of the worst countries in terms of capital punishment. that was the day i took my oath as president of mongolia. that same day i saw on my desk two draft decrees. i had to make the choice on whether or not to have two men executed. i chose life, and i kept to my decision – and i began delivering that message to the public and to our decision-makers. (applause)it was not easy to exercise leadership on this issue, but in 2012 my country ratified the un’s international covenant which aims at the abolition of the death penalty. there have been no executions in mongolia since june 2009. let me be clear: capital punishment is ineffective and barbaric. from this podium i would like to thank the eu and all our european friends who support and encourage us on this important cause. (applause)honourable members, reform of the judiciary is imperative for us. reforming our legislative and judicial frameworks is an important part of the efforts to build a free and fair society. it has been one of my priorities, and we have taken great steps to modernise all aspects of the justice system, from police and prosecutors to courts and judges. people’s confidence in a fair court of law is being restored. a free society must also be an inclusive one. women are the backbone of the family and the bedrock of a nation. they bring life into the world. often it is they who care for the old, the sick, and those in need. they are our mothers, our sisters and our daughters. for society to advance, we need more women in public service at all levels, from local to global. (applause)i am proud to report that, at our last election, we tripled the number of women in our parliament. with more women in power, i think we would have more harmony, more engagement, less suffering and less conflict. (applause) i would also like to say a word about education. education is the ground on which our future success will be built. i went from a family of herdsmen to harvard. i want other young people to have the same opportunity. we are working hard to build our capacity in schools, universities and other academic institutions. we are particularly grateful for being able to draw on the expertise of the council of europe’s education programmes to strengthen our institutions. i understand that all democracies should not look the same. we have to respect differences. democracy is a representative form of government. in any nation it should reflect the cultures and traditions. but in every decent society you will see a common trend: democracies limit the power of the state; they tend to be responsive to their people’s grievances; they protect human rights, with impartial and consistent rule of law; they support healthy civic institutions, independent media and judiciary; they fight corruption, invest in human capital and recognise gender equality; and they allow people to choose their leaders in free and fair elections. mr president, honourable members, these are all issues on which mongolia and europe share common values and on which we value your cooperation. mongolia and europe are old friends, as shown by a letter from the mongol ulziit khan to philippe le bel, which dates back 710 years. it says: ‘how can we consign to oblivion the friendship our forefathers, grandfathers, fathers and brothers so cherished, who, being far apart yet feeling near, exchanged words of wisdom and gifts of peace?’ it is in this same spirit that i speak today of opening a new chapter in mongolian-european relations. with the fall of communism, relations between mongolia and europe have again blossomed. your financial, technical and humanitarian assistance and cooperation greatly aided our efforts to build a free, democratic society, and for that we are grateful. in 2014, mongolia and the eu celebrated the 25th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. i see the cooperation between the european parliament and the mongolian state great khural as being crucial to the continued strengthening of our partnership. we have already made great strides together, including the establishment of the partnership and cooperation agreement between mongolia and the eu. i would like to thank the member states that have ratified that agreement. there are now more opportunities than ever for european investment. first-rate european companies are coming to mongolia to invest, often in partnership with our companies. as the government takes steps to improve the investment climate, such opportunities are rapidly increasing. we hope many of you will see our country’s beauties and its potential at first hand in 2016 when mongolia proudly hosts the 11th asia-europe meeting. i sincerely look forward to welcoming the leaders of the eu and of the member states to my country, and i assure you it will be a memorable summit. mr president, honourable members, mongolia’s commitment to international cooperation is strong. we recently launched an initiative called the forum of asia. we hope this will serve as a much-needed mechanism to promote the regional integration of all sovereign nations in asia, promoting equal representation of their diverse interests. my government is now working to finalise this concept and is inviting interested parties to contribute ideas that will aid its realisation. friends, mongolia does not have any intention to lecture others about democracy. yet we do have lessons to share. with kyrgyzstan, we are sharing our lessons learned in building effective parliamentary democracy and enacting legal reforms. with afghanistan, we are conducting training for diplomats and public servants. with myanmar, we are hosting media workers, journalists and civil society members. with north korea, we are engaging in economic and security dialogues. we strongly believe mongolia can make a substantial contribution to regional security in north-east asia and beyond. we understand the consequences of the cold war. because of our experiences under both communism and democracy, we are uniquely suited to serve as an honest broker in promoting peace and security in that region. as part of our efforts to build regional understanding, in 2013 i announced the ulaanbaatar dialogue on north-east asian security, an initiative similar to the helsinki dialogue. we have hosted a number of meetings and conferences on topics beyond security matters, such as energy, women and nuclear issues. my country has been pursuing nuclear-weapon-free status for 23 years. (applause) in 2012, the five permanent members of the un security council signed a joint declaration reaffirming our nuclear-weapon-free status. while nuclear power may remain a viable energy option for some, any nation seeking to build nuclear power must not endanger the peace and security of their independent neighbours. we take seriously our common responsibility to promote peace. the mongolian military proudly wear blue helmets and serve along with fellow un peacekeepers to maintain international order and security. mongolia has become one of the 20 largest peacekeeping contributors in the world. so far, more than 12 000 mongolian peacekeepers have served on active duty in hotspots around the world. this is a significant number if you consider the small size of our population. we mongols are proud to serve, and proud to contribute. mr president, honourable members, once again, i would like to thank the european council, the european union, the european commission, and you, the european parliament, as well as the nations of europe, for constantly supporting my country, mongolia. the mongols say: ‘the finest of men is tested in need. the finest of horses is tested in riding.’ you were with us when we needed your support the most. you were with us when we needed your voice of encouragement. you are always with mongolia, complimenting us on our success and helping in our challenges. the eu is the world’s premier invention for advancing global prosperity, peace and harmony. mongolia will be a strategic anchor for the eu in the east, helping to advance our shared values and interests and working to build peace, democracy and engagement in asia. friends, let us continue working together.
ladies and gentlemen, i think i speak for all of you when i thank the president for his speech. mr president, even if you have turned the page, i think i can say on behalf of all my colleagues that we have not heard such an encouraging speech for a long time. we would like to thank you very much for your presence here and for your speech and also for the invitation to intensify cooperation with your country. thank you for this great moment that you have made possible for us here. thank you very much, mr president. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make two comments, because on the one hand, as they say, it was a technical adjustment. how do you deal with the farmers' emergency reserve which is not being used up? this is of course going back to the farmers. so this is good news. we kept our word. but i would also like to draw the attention of my colleagues to another matter: we should ensure that farmers are able to prevent themselves from suffering any crisis that may arise, independently and with political support. we should also deal with this very matter again in the committee responsible. the best help is self-help, and if you can give it political support, that would be a fine thing.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the adjustment rate for direct payments for the calendar year 2015 because i am convinced that, in the face of all the market opening and market orientation, our agriculture, and especially family farming, needs reliable support. we want to preserve the rural smes in europe, because they are the pillars of rural structures and the guardians of our cultural landscape. direct payments are a crucial contribution to this.
i have to say, madam president, i did not agree to the catalogue of demands for equal rights, although i am very much in favour of equal rights. i am in favour of increasing the proportion of women in the workforce, i am in favour of promoting flexible working time models, i am in favour of combating violence against women. but many of the important things that have to do with equality are regulated by the member states as their responsibility. if europe interferes with maternity protection rules, it goes too far. if we demand the right to legal abortion, we are violating the constitution of the nation states. so yes to equality, no to this arrogant report!
i have to say, madam president, i think there is a very large majority in this house who are in favour of greater equality between men and women. and we all know that we have a lot of work to do in the european union. however, i would like to say: this is a goal which we can only achieve together - by which i mean the european union and the member states. it is therefore extremely important to sort out the responsibilities and to advise the european union, to talk about and decide what it is responsible for, and not to interfere in the matters for which the member states are responsible. that was precisely the major shortcoming of mrs noichl's report, which is why i could not agree with it. and we missed a great opportunity today as a result. the house could have adopted a report today by a huge majority. but that is not what happened, and i am extremely sorry.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i support the epp's alternative motion for a resolution. the report is right on many issues, such as the need to increase the employment rate of women, promote flexible working time models and combat violence against women. there is still a lot to be done in the member states in terms of gender equality. but on questions of sexual and reproductive health and related abortion rights, the rapporteur's claims must be rejected. abortion is not a european issue, but a matter for the member states. the right to legal abortion is to be rejected!
in writing. ‒ i voted against the noichl report on the eu strategy for equality between women and men for the period after 2015 today because, in the form it has been adopted, it clearly leaves the eu's remit on more than 50% of the points and violates the principle of subsidiarity. i was a leading figure in the formulation of the alternative resolution, which was narrowly rejected in amendment no 1.
in writing. ‒ equality between women and men is one of the fundamental rights of the european union. there is still a great need to catch up in this area. for example, women earn on average 16.4% less per hour than men. in the czech republic, austria, estonia and germany, the difference is over 20%. we need a new strategy for equality, and i strongly support gender equality. the new strategy, however, goes beyond the eu's competence. family and health issues remain the responsibility of the member states. i think it is wrong that the left and the greens are now calling for a fundamental right to abortion. the protection of life must be the priority here. gender equality covers many areas of life, but the legal framework for abortion is clearly a matter for national parliaments. instead, we should focus on combating trafficking in women and forced prostitution at european level, for example.
in writing. ‒ today, a vote was held on an eu strategy on equality between women and men for the period after 2015. there is a lot of reason and a lot of unreason in this report. but both should be left to the voters in the member states. that is why i took the easy decision to vote against this report. anything else would have been a flagrant breach of the principle of subsidiarity enshrined in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the noichl report. this is a gross exaggeration of the gender mainstreaming policy that began decades ago. i am explicitly in favour of equal opportunities, but not equal outcomes! the noichl report also contains a social policy loophole hidden under the heading 'equality of opportunities': 35% of the proposals do not deal with equality between men and women. 48% of the proposals contained in the report infringe the principle of subsidiarity. i had initially agreed to a drastically weakened compromise motion by the epp group against the noichl report for reasons of the unity of the majority, although i did not agree with it 100%. unfortunately, this did not win a majority in the plenary.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: access for underage pupils to abortion and contraception without parental consent; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of transsexuals are respected, and that the rights of transsexuals are respected. abolition of free elections by quotas; warning that marriage and motherhood are hazardous to health, now also quotas in marriage and family (arrangements for the balanced distribution of responsibilities in the family and household); the eu commission's review of national civil status law to fully recognise individually preferred gender identity and to abolish gender specific indicators (male/female); abolish the criminalization of abortion and instead recognize abortion as a human right... the eu is becoming a vast control system of values and standards that are alien to the world. however, there is no consensus on the noil: out of 750 meps entitled to vote, only 341 voted in favour (45.5%), 281 voted against (37.4%) and 81 abstained (10.8%). the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century, and it has been a party to the european convention on human rights since the beginning of the century. the cdu/csu also rejected this resolution on the grounds of abortion and again on the grounds of subsidiarity. instead, my group voted almost unanimously against the noichl report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the new strategy on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries is the appropriate means of tackling the problem of infringements of intellectual property rights in third countries more efficiently. only then will we be able to achieve an improvement in the level of protection and enforcement of intellectual property worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on a strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries, partly because i consider the focus on improving universal access to affordable medicines in emerging countries to be a key issue in european development policy.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on a strategy for the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the report calls for further efforts to ensure that the interests of authors and consumers are balanced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the european action plan because, in the face of the booming of online commerce, the growth of electronic commerce and the rapid development of technology, we need better standards to better protect intellectual property rights. counterfeiting and duplication are not the crimes of a gentleman. the eu should take the lead in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on an eu action plan for a new consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights - partly because i consider the focus on improving universal access to affordable medicines in emerging countries to be a key issue in european development policy.
in writing. ‒ i agreed with my group to the report on an eu action plan for a new consensus on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. this report supports the enforcement of intellectual property. its aim is to make it more difficult to place goods on the market which infringe intellectual property rights. the report emphasises the role of intellectual property rights in promoting innovation, creativity, competitiveness and growth. it also stresses that fair remuneration for authors should be an essential element of the eu action plan. it also includes the need to raise consumer awareness and disseminate information on infringements of intellectual property rights.
member of the commission.– madam president, let me start by welcoming today’s debate. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, ms gardini and mr la via, for their work on the recommendations on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and the agreement between the european union, its member states and iceland concerning iceland’s participation in the joint fulfilment of commitments. the same also applies, of course, to the shadow rapporteurs for the file. i welcome the suggestions in the recommendations to give consent for the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol and to the joint fulfilment agreement with iceland. ratification will give an important signal to the international community that we stand by our commitments. this is especially significant this year in the run-up to the united nations conference on climate change, to be held in paris in december this year. the second phase of the kyoto protocol serves as a bridge towards a post-2020 global climate change agreement. in this context, the european union and its member states, acting jointly – together with iceland – have committed to reducing their emissions during the period 2013-2020 to 20% below their levels of 1990 or other chosen base years. we are already implementing and, as a result of robust policies, are on track to meet the target. the commission welcomes the texts transmitted by the council to the parliament for consent. the draft ratification decision enables the european union, as a party to the kyoto protocol, to formally ratify the doha amendment. it also sets out the terms according to which the european union, its member states and iceland, will fulfil their emissions reduction commitments jointly. the draft ratification decision is consistent with the 2009 climate and energy package and does not change any national targets set in the climate and energy package, nor does it change the emissions cap of the european union emissions trading system. however, the ratification has gained significant value in the international climate change negotiations and is a demonstration of our continued commitment to the unfccc process. iceland participates in the joint fulfilment on the same basis as the member states. to ensure that iceland and the member states are treated alike, the emission level for iceland was determined in a way that is consistent both with the doha amendment and with union legislation, including the 2009 climate and energy package and the principles and criteria on which objectives in that legislation are based. finally, i would like to invite you to support the texts in front of you. ratification of the doha amendment will show that, as the world prepares for the adoption of a new global climate agreement, the european union stands by its commitments. it will also provide an example of cooperation between ambitious partners.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, elisabetta gardini and giovanni la via, and thank them for their work. the epp will of course support both reports. it is an important signal for the paris conference that we are now bringing this to a conclusion. i would also like to thank and congratulate the g7 participants who made very far-reaching decisions on climate protection over the weekend. i think it is important that we need a long-term decarbonisation target, and i ask commissioner miguel arias caňete to bring that into the european debate on the paris mandate now. at the moment, of course, it seems difficult to do without fossil fuels altogether. but it is a very long-term process, and there are examples of how, if it is done well, it can be economically viable even today. the commissioner is aware of a project in the canary islands which we have visited with some members and which we will be presenting to parliament next week. there, at least part of the area is already being supplied with 100% renewable energy and a combination of efficiency. so that's what we have to aim for, even if it's not that easy. we need - and this is very important - a dynamic agreement in paris. you have to be realistic . we will not have an agreement in december of this year that solves the climate problem, but we must renegotiate, continue to negotiate and take further steps again and again. that should be recorded as well as possible. we have to take climate action seriously, and i would like to end by quoting a very conservative american senator, john warner, who once introduced a climate action bill in the united states, which at that time did not have a majority. john warner was asked why he was a climate conservative, and his answer was science and grandchildren. science tells us that we have to act, because otherwise our grandchildren will be in big trouble. we should all take that to heart.
the commission has already done so. is the eu putting the cart before the horse, as the honourable member has just said? i think we also need to have elements that point the way. europe has a responsibility to lead the way on climate change. so it's right that we be ambitious, that we go first. because as we saw at the g7 summit, this is a policy for the whole world. it won't stop europe, it won't stop america. as chairman of the chinese delegation, i know how ambitious china is for the next five-year plan and what huge investments it will make in technologies, in products, in services for climate action. so let's not kid ourselves. we are not alone, we are in a global competition for the best ideas, including the best products. that's what this is about! the g7 summit sent a strong signal. decarbonisation is the watchword of the next few years and decades. the question is only to the commission: are we as good as we always are? we need a carbon divestment in the eu too. we must look at where we are still deep into fossil fuels ourselves. a question, commissioner: do we really have a strategy for 2050 to reduce greenhouse gases by up to 95%? the third question of credibility would be: what are we doing to get the $100 billion for climate change in the developing world? so there are still many unanswered questions on the way to paris.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as the author of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs, i should like to speak first of all about the external aspects of our report. the creation of a european energy union at home must be accompanied by a coherent external energy and climate policy. the most pressing issues are undoubtedly the diversification of our energy imports and the need to speak with a common european voice at international level. but energy and climate policy cannot be limited to security of supply. this includes the global fight against climate change. europe needs to make better use of its external policy instruments to promote european projects such as decarbonisation and the energy transition. new nuclear power stations do not increase our security of supply, but represent a constant security risk, alongside the still open question of nuclear waste disposal. this is particularly true if russia is allowed to build and continue to operate new nuclear power stations within europe.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already done so. the trade committee stresses the special role of trade in energy security. we see the key to success in building energy partnerships that not only provide security for ourselves but also for our partners. access to energy is a basic human need, and energy poverty is unfortunately a growing phenomenon in europe as well. inta therefore insists that energy security is about ensuring affordable, sustainable, stable, secure and predictable access to energy for citizens and businesses alike and must be part of an inclusive strategy for economic growth and a coherent interplay between eu trade and energy policies. these partnerships are to be embedded in global climate change objectives and binding commitments in energy chapters in eu trade agreements. we call on the commission to take strong action against environmental dumping by third countries which do not comply with international decisions. inta stresses that the reduction of dependence on one supplier should not be replaced by a new dependence on another supplier. the europeans reject fracking and favour a decentralised alternative. the export of environmentally friendly energy technology is an opportunity for europe. energy agreements will now be decided by the co-decision procedure.
the commission has already done so. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and to draw attention to two other aspects. i find it regrettable that the current political debate on energy security is dominated mainly by foreign policy issues. it is mainly about our heavy dependence on russian imports and the question of which country or region we will be able to source our gas from in the future. i think this is counterproductive, because new energy partnerships alone will not ensure our energy supply in the long term or reduce our dependence on imports. the second aspect i would like to draw attention to concerns the so-called domestic energy sources of the eu, which are frequently mentioned in the report. this term was also used in the commission's communication on the energy strategy, without being defined in any way. so i wonder what exactly is meant by this term. for example, is nuclear energy also one of the eu's domestic energy sources, even though 95% of the uranium used in the nuclear sector is imported from outside the eu? for example, despite the environmental concerns in many member states, is hydraulic fracking one of the eu's so-called promising domestic energy sources? this concept needs a very clear definition from the commission. that is why i put a written request to that effect last week.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you talk about price stability. what is the situation? if you take renewable energy, is it much cheaper in the long run and also in the medium term? i can only compare: if we take solar energy, which is considered to be priceless, it is much cheaper in germany today than, for example, electricity from new nuclear power stations.
i have to say, madam president, i have spent my life in industry and i cannot agree with this report because i lack the necessary technological neutrality, particularly in two areas. firstly, nuclear energy: how can we achieve the necessary decarbonisation of industry worldwide if we want to do without this industry? seventy nuclear power stations are currently under construction in the world, and particularly outside europe, and without nuclear energy it will not be possible to contribute to decarbonisation. and the second area for me is fracking. there is now a new study that makes it clear that the risks of fracking have been greatly exaggerated. that is why we must also work towards these two technologies in europe. fear is a bad advisor here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to congratulate mr saudargas on this report, because he has made a very good proposal which was also adopted by a large majority in the itre. i would like to emphasize one aspect in particular, namely the issue of energy efficiency. the cheapest and safest energy is the energy we don't need. and president juncker announced before his election that he would commit to at least 30% energy savings by 2030. we have also reaffirmed our support for this 30% target in a paper which we adopted together in the epp group. if you compare that: an important project to ensure energy security was the nabucco pipeline. it's probably not going to happen now. if nabucco had come, it would have represented 3% of the total energy supply of the european union, because of course gas is only a part of it and because of course it would have provided only a part of the gas supply. so 3 percent nabucco, with all the political discussions we've had about it, minus 30 percent energy efficiency. i think that's what perspective is. we must promote energy efficiency as the most cost-effective means of ensuring energy security and protecting the climate, and i am sure, commissioner, that you will be there when i ask you to do so.
a stable and sustainable energy supply and rational and efficient use of energy contribute to prosperity and security in the european union. the issue of energy security cannot therefore be dealt with at national level alone, but requires a european strategy which takes account of the interdependencies of the member states. the strategy for a secure european energy supply is necessary because it is an important pillar in the creation of an energy union. the crisis in ukraine in 2014 showed us that we need a common european energy policy!
in writing. it is very regrettable that the debate on the security of energy supply in europe is still too much focused on the import of energy and the use of controversial energies. we have been concerned about energy imports since the ukraine crisis, but despite this we in europe have been sleeping through the night developing concepts to meet our energy needs in such a way that we are not dependent on a few partners. the commission's report and communication are so firmly committed to the future use of domestic energy sources, and we would like to know what that means. many conservatives include nuclear power and hydraulic fracking among these energy sources, alongside renewable energy. but that cannot be the case, because we need to set clear priorities for the future of energy supply. nuclear power must not play a role in this. we must also avoid other methods that are certain or likely to contribute to pollution. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not with smart borders, we would create one of the largest fingerprint databases in the world. all those entering and leaving the eu would have to register there. that's alarming enough. but there's not even a proper purpose for what this is supposed to do. the commission has said that the database is intended to prevent overstays from lasting too long. but how exactly that's going to happen is completely unclear. finally, we have the database for statistical purposes only. we greens also reject with all our resolve the idea of simply extending the scope of the purpose and giving the police access to these fingerprints. the commission must not give in to the pressure of the member states, because that would be to trample on the fundamental rights of europe and data protection. and from a financial point of view, smart borders is not a particularly smart project either, because the costs will definitely be considerably higher than what has been calculated in the study. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and how can you tell countries like greece that they should cut pensions, that they should lay off people, but at any rate there must be money to buy such expensive equipment that serves no purpose other than statistical purpose. i don't see how the intelligent boundaries are supposed to be intelligent in any way. i think they're a big money-wasting machine, and we're wasting way too much money and time on them. we should finally get back to the real problems and look at where the problems are and then look at what the solution is. not looking at what the solution is, and then seeing if we can think of a problem to go with it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer.– thank you for calling my qualification into question: that is always very much appreciated. however, i am not sure that you have fully appreciated the proposal, because it is in no way going to make europeans more secure – in no way whatsoever. the only advantages it might bring are in relation to increased automation at borders, but we actually have studies that show it is going to make queues and waiting times longer. so there is no benefit in this system. if you want to look into it further, we can surely talk about that: it is an issue i have been working on for a couple of years. the proposal has been around for some time and has not really improved, and there has never been a substantive answer from the commission on what this is actually good for.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you, mr becker, for allowing me to ask the question. suppose the problem situation is as you described it. how do you explain to me that the smart borders system is the answer to the problem? you said that the irregular stay must be limited. but how do you do that when smart borders just tells you that a person is there for a longer period of time, but not where that person is? so, how do you want to handle this? you can't get that person out of european territory with smart borders.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the matter we are discussing today is a very serious one, and i agree with the honourable members. and it's not new. in my previous mandate, as chair of the budgetary control committee, i had to witness that already in 2011 and in 2013 the report of the supervisory committee pointed out that the members of the supervisory committee had difficulties in carrying out their work, that they did not have access to the information they considered necessary, that there were apparently repeated conflicts of competence between the management, the director of olaf and the supervisory committee. that is why we are here today in the house to ask the commission a question, because olaf is independent. we need a strong and functional anti-fraud authority, and that is right. and we in the european parliament are also defending that independence. but in a state of law, it is necessary that there are checks and balances. so the question is, who controls the controllers? the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it is extremely worrying for us as the committee on budgetary control when the members of this monitoring committee turn to us and point out difficulties. we want the monitoring committee to be able to do its job. in other words, if olaf is the police authority, then at eu level there is no european prosecutor, which we have been calling for for years, who can then monitor the police if necessary. in this context, we believe that the supervisory committee must now be strengthened or that the commission must take action to ensure that the supervisory committee can actually fulfil the tasks laid down in the regulation. we expect the commission to give us answers here.
member of the commission.– mr president, vice- president georgieva regrets that she is not able to participate in this debate tonight. i therefore represent the commission on this occasion. the fight against fraud is of the utmost importance for the commission, and i know that it is the same for parliament. in this context, parliament has repeatedly shown great interest in the work of the european anti-fraud office and its supervisory committee. most recently, when the supervisory committee presented its annual activity report covering the year 2014, this gave rise to discussions in the committee on budgetary control. some honourable members have stated that the report identified serious deficiencies in the work of olaf. the commission would like to emphasise that the role of the supervisory committee is to reinforce olaf’s independence as an investigative board. the supervisory committee can identify issues which, in its view, require further improvements with the aim of making olaf stronger in its core mission. in this context, the commission has received three oral questions covering matters referred to in the supervisory committee activity report or in other discussions concerning the supervisory committee of olaf. furthermore, four motions for a resolution touching on the same subjects were tabled by different political groups. allow me to elaborate on the matters raised in the oral questions. the first is the opening of 423 cases on 12 february 2012. the second is the commission’s position with regard to ensuring that olaf complies with the legal requirements placed on it in the olaf regulation. olaf has been criticised for the opening of a large number of cases, by a single decision, in february 2012. the commission has been informed that this decision was taken transparently; that all investigative units and olaf management were involved; and that the decision and its impact on olaf’s resources were transparently reported on in olaf’s annual report for 2012—2013. the decision was due to internal reorganisation and the need to clear a backlog. the commission also notes that olaf does not agree with the supervisory committee that the opening of the cases failed to meet the legal requirement for the opening of an investigation. olaf does not share the supervisory committee’s legal assessment on this matter. the commission emphasises that the opening of investigations is an investigative act, that olaf is fully independent in those acts, and that the commission is required to respect the independence of olaf in its investigative functions. the decisions that the european union and national authorities may adopt in the follow-up to olaf investigations are subject to judicial review. it should, furthermore, be noted that it is not the role of the supervisory committee to pass judgment on the legality of individual investigative acts, as recognised by the supervisory committee itself. my third point concerns the commission’s perception of the working arrangements and working relations between olaf and the supervisory committee, and its intention to facilitate those relations and to make olaf more efficient. the commission is aware that olaf and the supervisory committee are working very hard to improve their relations. in particular, olaf and the supervisory committee are currently reviewing their working arrangements in order to align them better to the needs of the supervisory committee. the commission, and in particular vice-president georgieva, has regularly raised with both sides issues linked to the relations between olaf and the supervisory committee. the commission’s aim is, of course, to facilitate and foster good cooperation and constructive dialogue. it should be noted, however, that olaf and the supervisory committee are two independent bodies which are already in dialogue and work together with the same aim. the commission can offer its advice and support, but it is the responsibility of olaf and its supervisory committee to develop sound and constructive cooperation. referring, in its activity report, to the independence of its secretariat, the supervisory committee mentions legal requirements. the olaf regulation specifies that the supervisory committee secretariat shall be provided by the office in close consultation with the supervisory committee. in its most recent opinion, no 1/2015, on olaf’s budget 2016 – an opinion not yet shared with the institutions – the supervisory committee recognises that the current arrangements with olaf come close to sufficient financial autonomy for the supervisory committee and its secretariat. as stated by my colleague vice-president georgieva at parliament’s march 2015 part-session, the commission is currently exploring ways in which it can further strengthen the independence of the supervisory committee in its human resources and budget management within the existing framework. fuller formal independence of the supervisory committee and secretariat, in terms of both budget and human resources, would, however, require the legislator to amend olaf regulation 883/2015. in view of the international role of both olaf and the supervisory committee in the protection of the european union’s financial interests, the relations between olaf and the supervisory committee are, of course, a matter of interest to parliament, the council and the commission. we would like to propose that the subject be discussed further in the context of the annual interinstitutional exchange of views provided for in the olaf regulation. the next exchange of views will take place in september 2015. fourthly, on the question of whether the commission is to propose an action plan to resolve serious deficiencies highlighted in the supervisory committee annual report, the commission is of the opinion that it is excessive to consider that the supervisory committee has identified serious deficiencies. it is the very purpose of the supervisory committee to identify issues which, in its view, require further improvement in the work of the office, and to make the corresponding recommendations. many of the issues raised by the supervisory committee in its activity report refer to olaf’s investigative activities, such as the opening of the 423 cases in 2012, the investigative policy priorities and the participation of the office in the commission’s clearing house meetings. last week, on 2 june 2015, olaf presented its annual report for the year 2014. it reports on the efficacy and results of its investigations, providing a positive picture of its achievements. it is for olaf, as an independent investigative body, to give proper follow-up and to inform the supervisory committee and the institutions thereof. the commission has been informed by olaf that it has responded to, or is in the process of responding to, many of the supervisory committee’s recommendations and requests. as mentioned by the chair of the supervisory committee during his speech at the meeting of the committee on budgetary control on 4 may, the important professional work carried out by olaf deserves all our appreciation, and the statutory role of the supervisory committee is to improve this work and to contribute to trust in olaf’s investigative activities.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. sometimes it's better not to read what others write. the presentation was so characterized by a lack of expertise and one-sidedness that i almost lost my voice. what would happen if a police authority in the eu or in third countries manipulated statistics, opened cases to make itself look better, presented parliament with polished figures and allegedly informed it, and at least achieved unclear results in the core area of its task, namely the protection of funds? the eu would have been there and given a lot of good advice long ago. in the core area of eu affairs, namely the anti-fraud office, you have long since explained to us that this is not so bad after all, that you can see the matter from two sides and that you should not be upset about what is happening there, because on the one hand those who find this out would extend the mandate of the monitoring committee. commissioner, that was all a big mess. i'm sorry, that was all a big mess. it was completely inappropriate, at least objectively. we have a big problem, and it literally stinks to high heaven. and you - the commission - act as if you had nothing to do with it. the commission is trying to avoid that. you've been trying to get out of this for two years now. we are dealing with serious violations of the law, and you tell us: "people, don't act like that, we don't care about that. think twice about what you're saying. i'm sorry about that. we'll work this all out. i have to tell you, i didn't think it was possible. i'm glad i was there. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have all been preparing for weeks for today's plenary debate and the vote that is scheduled to take place, and we learned yesterday of the decision of the president of the parliament that we cannot vote today. because there have been various rumors, i want to clarify: our group would have been prepared to vote today. but since the vote will not take place today and the committee will now have to vote again on the amendments, it makes sense that the vote and the debate will also take place together and then we will debate ttip and the report when we know what is really on the ballot. that is why i ask that we hold the vote together with the plenary debate when the committee has met again, and that is why we do not hold the debate today but postpone it until the appropriate time. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it was just said in the explanatory statement that the group chairmen who have the majority of the votes in the group chairmen's round have asked the president to call off the debate today. i would like to say that i find this approach very problematic, because you are also undermining institutions within this parliament. they do all this without at least asking the representatives of the various groups here, without consulting them. this is an unding! you can always hide behind paragraphs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. but what i think is necessary is that there should be appropriate consultation beforehand and with each other. this is unacceptable! and we protest as a group against this way of parliamentary self-restraint, against our own neglect of our own rights. (applause from the centre) millions of people are waiting to see what we do today. and you just push it aside. if we are to represent the people who elected us, they at least have the right to hear the voice of parliament, whether you like it or not, on the side of the majority. we are not responsible for the fact that the grand coalition ... (applause)... here in parliament cannot agree. this is a move, an unworthy move, and we will not participate in it again! (applause from the centre)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for the fact that it is only 8 a.m., we are already having a rather exciting debate in the european parliament. let me make this clear first . the question of whether we shall have a debate today or not is for the plenary of the parliament to decide. that is why it is not decided behind closed doors, but we members of parliament who decide whether we will debate or not. this is a completely fair procedure, and it is right. secondly, martin schulz has acted on the basis of the rules of procedure. the rules of procedure are clear: if too many motions have been tabled and the house is overburdened, it has the right to refer them back. he has also earned our support in order to discuss the work of parliament properly. thirdly, and frankly speaking, as a party leader, i can say that it frightens me to see the two extremes in this house, the radical left and the radical right, talking angrily to each other, while the greens are on the side of these people. i'm very worried about that. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr weber, i think you should really reconsider this last accusation. if anyone who is critical of private arbitration in the context of ttip is now branded as a radical left or a radical right, then i wonder what kind of basis we have for cooperation in this house. (applause from the centre) many of our colleagues are sitting here, particularly on this side, but also on that side, who promised their voters during the election campaign that there would be no such private arbitration courts! i can read these promises anywhere. this vote and the debate will be postponed today. martin schulz is doing that, based on the rules of procedure. martin schulz is in favour of postponing the vote because it is no longer clear how his group, the social democratic group, is going to deliver on its campaign promise. (applause and cheers) mr pittella, we have already voted on a great many more than 200 amendments. the reason why this is not possible now is that mrs malmström's proposal has just been ... (the president shall withdraw the floor from the speaker.) (thunder in the hall)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was trying to educate the colleagues next door. if he had followed the vote closely, there would have been few amendments, but only votes on the original text. these were not amendments. maybe he should look at his voting list.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i propose that we correct a mistake and replace the words 'in the next five years' with 'in this legislative term'. this has been agreed with the rapporteur and i ask you to agree to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol to establish a new commitment period (2013-2020) to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we have a shared responsibility to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. the doha amendment to the climate protocol is an important step in the forthcoming negotiations on a new global climate pact.
in writing. i have refused to give my consent to the conclusion of the doha amendment to the kyoto protocol. the kyoto protocol to the united nations framework convention on climate change, signed in 1997, established an internationally binding emission reduction target. the doha amendment establishes a second commitment period under the kyoto protocol, which began on 1 january 2013 and ends on 31 december 2020, and includes legally binding emission reduction commitments under which the european union, its member states and iceland are obliged to limit their average annual greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2013 to 2020 to 80% of their base year emissions (in most cases 1990). i do not share the ideology of man-made climate change that underlies this agreement. i have therefore rejected the amendment to the contract.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the eu/iceland agreement on iceland's participation in the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, as we can only tackle climate change by meeting the commitments under the protocol together. cooperation with non-eu countries is an essential approach to tackling this major climate challenge.
in writing. i have agreed with my group to the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 29 may 2000 drawn up by the council in accordance with article 34 of the treaty on european union on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and to the protocol of 16 october 2001 relating thereto. i am opposed to the enlargement of the eu by additional members. however, it makes sense to extend the rules on legal aid in criminal matters to other countries, whether they are eu members or not.
in writing. i have agreed with my group to the recommendation for a council decision on the accession of croatia to the convention of 26 may 1997 on the basis of article k.3 (2) (c) of the treaty on european union on the fight against corruption involving officials of the european communities or officials of member states of the european union. i am opposed to the enlargement of the eu by additional members. however, it makes sense to extend the rules on bribery of eu officials to other countries, whether they are eu members or not.
i voted for this report with pleasure. i am very pleased that this report clearly and unambiguously identifies the situation in russia, its actions on the international scene and also the way democracy works within the state itself. i'm from the czech republic, where a certain section of left-wing politicians relativize the behavior of russia and the behavior of putin and his regime, especially, unfortunately, the czech president. what's more valuable, i think, is that we have here today a report that is not politically super-correct, that does not soften reality and that clearly says that russia is violating international law today. that there is no democracy and democratic rule of law in russia, that there is no media freedom in russia, and that in such a situation russia can hardly be a strategic partner of europe, and that the sanctions must continue. that's the key message, i think, and i'm glad we got it today.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if a country violates international law, it cannot be left without consequences, and it does not matter whether it is a large or a small country. because we can't replace justice with strength or power. that is why it is very important that this report has been discussed in the european parliament. that is the first point. secondly, if you read the report carefully, you will see that it is not just about sanctions, it is about punishment. no, it's also about the willingness to talk. the european union remains ready to engage in dialogue with russia in order to eliminate the existing problems. that is why i am voting against the report. that's why i was able to give him my approval.
in writing. i did not agree with the eu parliament resolution on the state of eu-russia relations. in particular, it perpetuates the difficult situation for germany of not considering russia as a strategic partner. the resolution also blames russia alone for the cooling of relations. it deplores the state of the rule of law in russia, but at the same time calls for the establishment of propaganda institutions in the eu to influence public opinion, thus endangering the independence of the press and thus the freedom of the press, which is essential for a democratic state based on the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ the eu imports 53% of its total energy consumption, namely 85% of its oil, 67% of its natural gas, 41% of its solid fuels and about 95% of its uranium. the current dependence prevents a detached foreign policy and limits the competitiveness of industry. this dependence must be reduced. the aim is to ensure security of supply, affordable energy prices and the achievement of our climate targets at the same time. this requires a number of measures: energy efficiency must be improved and thus overall energy consumption reduced. in addition, the aim is to increase domestic energy production. to this end, investment in research is being continued. we also need a fully integrated internal energy market. energy supply is still decided at national level without taking full account of the interdependence of the member states. this limits the eu's ability to respond as a whole to supply shortages and threats to energy security. a unified position on external energy policy would give individual countries a better negotiating position. another important point is the diversification of energy suppliers. this must be pursued consistently so that foreign policy is not influenced by energy dependencies and geopolitical developments, such as those currently taking place in russia and ukraine, do not threaten our energy supply. these guidelines should ensure energy supply in both the short and long term.
in writing. ‒ yesterday, the european parliament voted on the european strategy for energy security. the report focuses only on energy efficiency and renewable energy. what is completely overlooked is the issue of technology neutrality. we should, as far as possible, keep all options open in terms of technological solutions to the energy policy challenges of our time, for example decarbonising the economy and reducing energy dependence. of course, we're for more efficiency and clean energy. but we must also make way for nuclear energy and shale gas in europe, especially if we want to re-industrialise. 70 new nuclear power plants are being built worldwide - including in europe! and fracking should not be banned altogether. scientists say the environmental impact is being hyped. it is not justified and unacceptable from a scientific and technical point of view to impose a general ban. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the eu parliament resolution on the european strategy for energy security. it has not attained a majority in parliament either. my group has tabled a number of amendments which would have improved the report. i would also like to ask the commissioner whether he would be prepared to accept these amendments. the report is an attack on europe's industrial base and calls for a shift towards a greener energy economy. it is based on the ideological basis of man-made climate change, which i do not share. the central planning restructuring of the energy production sector in germany and europe based on questionable ideological dogmas is wrong. in addition, there are certainly tasks for the coordination of energy security matters at eu level. however, this does not include requirements on the national energy mix. the proposal submitted to parliament for a decision therefore also infringes the principle of subsidiarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for the third time, the monitoring committee of the olaf anti-fraud office has pointed out serious difficulties and obstacles to its work. for me and the alde group, the fight against fraud is of central importance, as is the independence and functioning of the anti-fraud office. however, for reasons of the rule of law, it is crucial that control also has control. so who controls the inspectors if not the members of the monitoring committee who are appointed to do so? we in the alde group have put a question to the commission. we have not adopted a resolution of our own. the commission's reply to the plenary yesterday was far from satisfactory. questions were not answered, questions were only partially answered. i therefore decided, and the alde group has decided, to support the resolution by several groups calling on the commission to take action now, to present an action plan and to ensure the functioning of the monitoring committee.
mr president, first i would like to congratulate you on chairing this meeting. i guess it is an all-time record – a marathon, hours and hours and hours. congratulations on your work here. turning to the report ... ich habe für den türkei-bericht gestimmt, weil ich mit der situationsanalyse sehr einverstanden bin. die einzig richtige reaktion auf die menschenrechtslage aber wäre es jetzt, die beitrittsverhandlungen abzubrechen. die baustelle ist doch im moment gar nicht der beitritt. es gibt viel wichtigere themen, die wir mit der türkei verhandeln sollten, etwa eine verbesserung der zollunion, um die ttip-nachteile mit der türkei auszugleichen. es geht um den antiterrorkampf, es geht um flüchtlinge, es geht um verkehrsinfrastrukturen. nutzen wir endlich diese wichtigen themen, um fortschritte zu bekommen, und lassen wir stattdessen die beitrittsverhandlungen sein. die ressourcen, die wir da verschwenden, sind viel zu kostbar. beschäftigen wir uns endlich mit den wichtigen fragen für die türkei, und das ist eine bilaterale partnerschaft zwischen der eu und der türkei.
in writing. ‒ turkey has been a candidate country for eu membership since 1999 and has been in negotiations since october 2005. however, almost ten years later, further reforms are still needed to open negotiations on judicial chapters 23 and 24 at all. the 2014 progress report shall identify areas where the required criteria are not yet met. the turkish government has recently moved away from european values, rather than towards them, by imposing massive restrictions on civil liberties. it is the duty of the turkish government to commit itself to respecting the freedom of the press and to strengthening the independence of the judiciary. the commission has also been asked to take action to combat corruption in the country. the elections last sunday opened up new opportunities for advancing and intensifying cooperation. the high turnout in last monday's parliamentary elections is an indication of the potential of turkish democracy. the fact that all the major political parties will be represented in the new parliament is very important. so we hope that positive changes will now take place. the lack of the rule of law, tolerance, democracy and freedom of expression means that the opening of new negotiating chapters is not possible for the time being.
in writing. ‒ progress reports are a means to an end to attest the eu compatibility of future member states and thus to advance eu enlargement. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the european parliament and the council for approval. however, i am sticking to the afd's european election programme: 'first consolidation, then enlargement' and 'no eu membership for turkey'. the accession negotiations with turkey have been going on for over 50 years, since the signing of the association agreement in 1963. turkey has been an official candidate for accession since 1999 and accession negotiations were opened in 2005. the governments of all the member states - including chancellor angela merkel of the cdu - are also facing resistance from their own people at every stage. the turkish election campaign of the turkish parties is going on quite smoothly in germany even without turkey's eu membership. but i am convinced that europe has geographical, cultural and historical boundaries which the eu must not ignore. i therefore reject the admission of turkey and demand that the accession negotiations with turkey be terminated. the eu and turkey have also been cooperating economically.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a former air force officer, i was certainly not a great friend of russia 30 years ago. but things have changed in international politics. i am very surprised that in a debate in this house on war and peace, not even 5% of all members are present. if we keep talking about russian aggression, we must simply take note of the fact that former president gorbachev clearly stated that he was lied to in the 1990s when he dissolved the soviet union and the warsaw pact. when he launched a policy of peace, he was told that nato would not expand eastwards. what about poland today? what is the situation today with bulgaria, hungary, romania and the three baltic states? nato was getting closer and closer to russia, and now crimea was over. the european union has a duty to ensure that the people of the baltic states are not excluded from the european union. when i hear the voices of the cold war coming from the majority groups in this house again, i wonder very clearly whether the arms industry might be behind this, because over the last 20 years the arms budgets in europe have been drastically reduced. we don't need a war. we don't need a war policy. we need dialogue and talks! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8))
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. every sovereign country has the right to do something. of course, that was their sovereign right. but a policy of the eu aimed at making association agreements and at the same time pursuing a policy of association with nato - as is now happening in georgia, azerbaijan and so on - is of course an aggressive expansion. you can do one thing, but you have to let the other thing go.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, high representative/vice–president mogherini at the moment is chairing the eu-latin america summit. i think the summit has an enormous and strategic importance as well. as you know, the college is a college in which one commissioner can replace another commissioner. i think it has been a really fruitful and very helpful debate and exchange. it was very helpful for the eu in forming its policy towards the black sea basin. let me just make a general remark and then some detailed remarks on the issues you just raised during the debate. generally, we can say that the illegal annexation of crimea and sebastopol by the russian federation created a threat, a very dangerous situation, which is a direct challenge to international security, with grave implications for the international legal order that protects the unity and sovereignty of all states. the eu will remain committed to fully implementing its non-recognition policy, including through restrictive measures. on the other hand, if and when a sustainable solution to the ukraine conflict is found, we will obviously need to adjust and recalibrate our relationship with russia. we should be ready to engage with that country. we cannot let dividing lines and lasting rifts split our continent. some honourable members just raised the issue of energy policy and complained about the lack of action at european level regarding the independence and diversification of resources under energy policy. let me simply say that the european commission and the council have just adopted the communication on the energy union. vice–president šefčovič is travelling to central asia to have negotiations there in order to help diversification for central european and eu countries and the eu member states generally. we are implementing the third energy package, which aims to bring about independence and diversification in energy policy as well. others raise the issue of human rights in crimea. while obviously it is a difficult situation, and we have difficulties and independent ngos have difficulties in gaining access to crimea, we can say that high representative/vice-president mogherini is supporting the council of europe’s efforts in making the situation more stable and more developed in human rights there. she is supporting commissioner muižnieks’s efforts in that area. we have condemned the violation of rights, notably (but not only) of tatars in crimea. some of you raised the issue of the european security strategy. yes, we need a review of the european security strategy. it is on its way and we are absolutely relying on your cooperation on that procedure. we look forward to working closely with you and the member states on the review of the european security strategy.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, as you know, there have been a number of emergency debates and resolutions on burundi in recent months. however, i believe that recent serious events in the country fully justify our addressing this issue once again this afternoon. as commissioner mimica said when he addressed this house in april, it is important for burundians to know that they have champions in the outside world supporting their ambitions to achieve long-term democracy and resilience. that can only be done with consistent and continuous attention to the needs and aspirations of citizens, not least their human rights and fundamental freedoms. since the last debate in this house there have been a number of developments which unfortunately give rise to considerable concern on the part of the eu. you already know that the decision of the ruling party to nominate president nkurunziza as a presidential candidate promoted a serious division across society and across politics. the situation deteriorated rapidly with the attempted coup on 13 may. the eu condemned the attempted coup. indeed, we deplore any act of political violence. this is unequivocally not the way to encourage the openness and transparency which burundi needs to navigate this crisis in a spirit of consensus and reconciliation. the international community, including the european union, has obviously been faced with a very challenging situation. as high representative/vice-president mogherini said in her statement following the events of 13 may, our first thoughts must be with the citizens of the country. their security and safety is paramount, and it is essential the situation does not spin out of control. these concerns also encompass the regional aspect. from a humanitarian point of view, since the political crisis erupted in burundi, the wave of refugees fleeing burundi has been ongoing and increasing in intensity over recent weeks. as of today, almost 100 000 people have sought refuge in neighbouring countries: tanzania, rwanda, the democratic republic of congo and uganda. the commission’s humanitarian aid and civil protection department is closely monitoring the situation and has already released eur 1.5 million to meet the immediate needs of burundian refugees arriving in rwanda last month. additional humanitarian aid is being considered to cater for the specific needs of refugees hosted in tanzania, including health assistance to stop the possible surge of diseases and epidemics, notably cholera. i would like to turn now to the political situation and to our reaction. the eu has been supporting burundi in its efforts to entrench democracy since the arusha agreements put an end to years of civil war and laid the foundations for a new era. this year’s legislative and presidential elections were to be a key step in cementing the long-term democratic development of burundi. that is why high representative/vice-president mogherini decided to deploy an eu election observation mission, led by the chief observer david martin mep. at this point i would like to pay tribute to the dedication and commitment shown by mr martin and his team during these difficult weeks. overall, we remain convinced that respect for the arusha peace agreement is key for the further stability of burundi. this is the overarching principle we all need to follow. we cannot ignore the fact that the third-term issue is at the origin and the centre of the crisis, and we continue to urge all, including the president, to put the higher interests of the country first. in order to preserve the best chances for the election to succeed, there is a need for a broad consensus on the issue. the idea of the electoral observation mission and of our financial support to the elections was to contribute to an inclusive, transparent, peaceful, credible and fair process that will give confidence to the political actors and electorate and would ensure acceptance of the outcome. this remains our objective, but, to reach that objective, some minimal conditions needed to be met. unfortunately, our assessment was that these conditions were not in place. in particular, we noted continuing restrictions on independent media and freedom of expression and assembly, excessive use of force against demonstrators, a climate of intimidation for opposition parties and civil society, and a lack of confidence in the election authorities. developments in the last few days have done nothing to ease our concerns. for this reason we suspended the electoral observation mission and, indeed, our financial support for the elections. we are not alone in questioning the credibility of the elections. last week, the catholic church decided to withdraw from the process and two members of the election commission resigned. the african union (au) and the east african community (eac) are also refraining from sending an electoral observation mission at the moment. but this is not the end of the story. if domestic stakeholders agree on acceptable conditions for holding the elections, then we are ready to redeploy the actual observation mission and support the process. this means we now need to concentrate on getting those conditions in place. all parties should engage in good faith in a dialogue to restore the necessary conditions for democratic elections and, primarily, the government of burundi should reach out to all domestic stakeholders by restoring confidence through concrete measures. the eu supports all efforts to achieve a peaceful solution to the political crisis in burundi and especially the work of the east african community, the international conference on the great lakes region, and the african union. as you are aware, the east african community convened an emergency summit in dar es salam on 31 may. i would like to take up some of the conclusions of that summit, because they are important to our approach in the weeks ahead. we join the east african community in praising the work of un special envoy, said djinnit. in difficult circumstances mr djinnit has been facilitating a political dialogue, which is the only way forward. he has our full confidence and it is important that all forces support his efforts. on 5 june the spokesperson of high representative/vice-president mogherini issued a statement calling on all parties in the dialogue to work with mr djinnit and with the envoys of the african union and the east african community in order to find a consensus on the road ahead. this is the message we are giving out locally, as well as internationally. we have supported the east african community’s call for a postponement of the elections and we take note that earlier today a presidential decree was signed fixing a new calendar for the elections. but this timetable will not be relevant unless it is accompanied by urgent and serious efforts to build consensus and to take all the steps needed to make the elections credible. it is therefore vital now that the east african community’s conclusions should be followed up with concrete action. this includes a cessation of violence by all parties and the disarming of youth militias. conditions proposed by the eac to ensure safety and respect for fundamental freedoms need to be followed up. it is first and foremost for the government to ensure these conditions are met, and to stop the violence. obviously the eu will need to review its options in the longer term, but i want to stress the delicacy of the current moment. delivering successful elections will not be an easy task. all burundi’s partners need to support african efforts, led by the eac and the au, and focus their efforts on calming the political climate. we do this while reminding burundi and burundians of the principles which matter to us and to our partnership. the cotonou agreement is absolutely clear on the need to respect human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law as essential elements. we must keep this in mind but, at the same time, we need to leave space for burundians with their regional and african partners to find viable solutions to be current crisis. i want to end by reiterating an important point made by commissioner mimica last month. in the current climate, the commission has to plan for all possible scenarios and, of course, to consider the adoption of possible additional measures, including those related to eu development cooperation with burundi. but in all these considerations, we need to give attention to the impact which different measures could have on the extremely poor population and thereby the stability of an already fragile country. i look forward very much to hearing the views of the honourable members. thank you for your attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is right and important that we in the european parliament should once again turn our attention to burundi this year. after years of civil war in this country, which has left 300,000 dead, burundi made a tentative move towards stability and democracy in 2005. with parliamentary and presidential elections this year, the country, still one of the poorest in the world, should take a major step towards more democracy, the rule of law and greater security for its citizens. the eu was ready - the commissioner said - to support this process and has already provided €6 million for the elections. an eu-european parliament election observation mission was ready to monitor the conduct of the elections. the announcement by the current president nkurunziza that he would stand for a third term in defiance of the burundian constitution seems to jeopardize all efforts to hold free and fair elections in burundi. the demonstrations by civil society in the capital bujumbura have been violently suppressed, more than 20 people have been killed and more than 100 000 burundians, many of them children, have fled the country. and the president's party's youth organization, imbonerakure, is terrorizing anyone suspected of being in opposition to the ruling party. a military coup has already failed and the compromise reached in the arusha treaty between the hutu and tutsi ethnic groups is threatened with dissolution. influential institutions, such as the catholic church, have withdrawn from the preparation of the electoral process. the east african community summit, to which the commissioner also referred, recommended postponing the elections. however, this summit did not take a position on nkurunziza's desire to run for a third term, which of course can now also contribute to a threat to the whole region, because next year there will be elections in the democratic republic of congo, in 2017 in rwanda. and there, too, it could be that presidents run unconstitutionally for a third term. at the same time, many refugees from burundi are now becoming a burden on the neighbouring countries of congo, rwanda and tanzania. we should act as the european union, in cooperation with the united nations and the african union states, and do everything we can to ensure that free elections can be held in burundi this year. the possibilities for influence are there. we could stop the financial contributions to the burundian government, but we should help the refugees in the refugee camps. and we should maintain our determination to support a democratic electoral process in burundi. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december. as you know, it is a noble task for the countries of europe to help the developing countries - burundi is one of them - if they wish to make the move towards democracy. that was the intention of development aid. that is why i asked that we stop all payments until the situation there is cleared up. some of the member states, such as belgium and the netherlands, have already done so.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the situation in burundi is very serious, and much has been said about it. it is again the result of the stubborn hold of an autocrat on power. the election has now been postponed due to pressure from regional organisations eac. this is a success for the eac. but it doesn't solve the fundamental problem of the president's candidacy for a third term. and this insistence on this third term also endangers the peace process in burundi. because according to the arusha agreement, there can only be one re-election. the question now is: what can the international community do about it? it must monitor the burundian media more closely, especially the international criminal court. and it must pay particular attention to the media which, as in 1994 in rwanda, are fomenting this ethnic problem, this ethnic hatred which exists between tutsi and hutu in burundi. this ethnic tension must not be further fuelled by the media. the international court of justice should also launch an inquiry into the serious human rights violations in burundi, particularly by the government militias. the simple condemnation by the international community does not help. commissioner, you have spoken to cotonou. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council get involved in this. what is your position on this? does the commission intend to convert budgetary aid into direct humanitarian aid, for example? they have said: we need money for the refugees, we need money for the fight against cholera. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary aid is used to support the burundian government. what will you do beyond election observation to promote dialogue between the government, the opposition and civil society? (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not joseph blatter is in the history of fifa. but as overdue as his resignation may have been, he was never the only problem. with all its interconnectedness, dependencies and dark sides, fifa is more like the multi-headed monster of greek mythology, the hydra. with joseph blatter, she only lost a head. the question remains, however, how will it proceed from here? but now the way is open for a major reform and a complete reorientation of fifa. there must be no easy transition to the agenda. the values of sport, such as fairness, team spirit and equal opportunities, must not be trampled underfoot by corrupt machinations. the consistent approach of the us prosecutor's office clearly shows us how important criminal sanctions are. years of self-commitment, half-hearted reforms and an ethics committee that is not so sure whether it deserves the name have not been enough to stop the self-serving mentality of many officials. fifa must now embark on a major reform. the european associations, but also uefa, have a special responsibility here. the questionable em 2018 and 2022 regulations also need to be urgently put on the agenda. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. we need good governance with clear international standards and rules to maintain the integrity of sport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's sporting competence is not undermined by the fact that the community is not a member of the world cup. we must work together to prevent everything that makes sport possible from being trampled underfoot by corrupt and opaque structures. we owe it to the fans and the players. because they need to be able to rely on the fact that things will be right in their sport in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. fifa is not a charity, it is a public nuisance. my colleague claudia roth said that a few years ago, and recent events have again shown that, unfortunately, it is true. i welcome the resignation of joseph blatter, which was overdue. but as previous speakers have said, it is a bad solution that he is still in office. there must be a new interim president, because otherwise there will be no real reworking of events. yes, fifa must also cooperate with the fbi and the swiss authorities, and support them in their efforts to obtain information. and fifa must be clear about its commitment to fighting corruption and implementing clear reforms. i also want the commission to take coordinated action against corruption and for the member states to work with interpol to send a clear signal against corruption. but the most important thing for me is that the awarding of the world cup to russia and qatar, that these decisions are reversed. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the middle east. this must be a very clear policy of fifa. we want a clear code of conduct for sports organisations against corruption, and i also want women to be much better represented in sports organisations, especially in the boards, than they are now. that is a glaring defect. many women also participate in football, but are not represented there. this needs to change urgently, and it would also be an important sign against corruption. one last word: we have the erasmus+ programme, and there is a clear statement against doping, against violence, against racism and against game manipulation. that is why this programme must be more clearly presented to the public.
ppe. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. sport, and football in particular, is not, as is often claimed, the most beautiful side-effect of life. no, sport - and football in particular - is the glue, the plaster, that holds our society together. this is particularly true of the many associations, most of which are run on a voluntary basis. in my own country, germany, there are 26 000 football clubs with almost seven million members, active in the fields of child and youth work, the elderly, and disabled sports. we know that these associations are the best functioning social welfare institutions in our society. add to this the great enthusiasm that football, the fair competition, arouses in the spectator. this applies to the circuit league as well as to international competitions up to the world cup. all these people meet regularly, and they do so on the basis of fairness, respect for values and rules of the game, and by being a role model. at the lower level, the voluntary level, it works very well. the problem is that where there is a lot of money flowing, where large sums are paid as compensation, nothing works. confidence in fifa has been betrayed. it is sad to see how greed, power and moral failure of individuals discredit the whole of football. all those who are sincerely committed to football have a right to expect the same honesty, transparency, openness and fair play from the football administration fifa . fifa needs to make fundamental changes quickly to restore its credibility. i can only endorse the ten points of the main demands made by the president of the german football association today. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids. this requires a european consensus within uefa on reforms and also on future staffing decisions. only then can you regain the trust you lost and set an example.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the typical saturday afternoon of a father or mother with football-loving children: standing on the edge of a small football field, cheering at the goal and crying tears of joy as the little ones proudly rush like oskar to the team booth. this is football and the opposite of what sepp blatter and his corrupt fifa comrades are showing us right now. it's not about sports anymore, it's not about performance, it's not about team spirit. it's all about money and power. in short, it is about destroying the dream for which we fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, are raving every saturday on the amateur football pitches of europe. i hope that the eu will have a clear voice in bringing football back to the field of idealism, enthusiasm and encounter. as an expert on the medium-sized businesses in my group, i often speak of the ideal of the honourable merchant. and i want that belief back in professional sports. let's do it for the boys, the girls, the volunteers who kick in the little squares of the world. because of them, we have to make sure that the 2018 and 2022 world cups are re-scheduled. you're the reason the honorable merchant needs his place in professional sports. you're the reason we have to revisit the idea of a fair play fee for international player transfers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. corruption, money laundering, tax evasion: these are the charges that are facing top fifa officials. but this is about more than just awarding world cups to russia or qatar; it's about marketing rights and possibly bought votes in the executive committee. the question is whether the fifa leadership has abused the trust of football fans around the world to enrich themselves personally through a system of dependence and corruption. the investigations by the swiss and us authorities are to be fully supported. we also need europol and interpol and eurojust. the resignation of joseph blatter was overdue, but it was only the first step towards a radical new beginning for fifa. an interim president must be prepared to push for deep structural reforms of this second largest sports federation in the world. criteria: term limits for the members of the executive committee and the president, continuous external and independent review of all financial activities and transparent rules for the award of world cups. uefa, as the european governing body, has only a small share of the votes, but it has a special responsibility because of the size of its membership. this is particularly true of the dfb as the world's largest football association with over six million members. dfb president wolfgang niersbach just unveiled a 10-point plan today, ranging from respecting human rights in host countries to balancing votes according to the size and relevance of the federations. the role of sponsors is essential, but so too is that of the broadcasters, who must exert their influence in order to speed up the restructuring processes. the public broadcasters who are partly financing the football system through our fees bear a special responsibility. obscure fifa methods have undermined the integrity of football. we must succeed in bringing this fascinating sport and its diverse cultural and social dimensions back into the spotlight.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. football is one of the most wonderful things in the world, and it is a shame how some officials have handled it and what they have done. but i am equally annoyed that many - perhaps in all areas - have come too late. it took a long time for the american police to act and then to draw the consequences. the dramatic thing for me is that there was an organization, that people could work there without the indications, the concerns, the complaints that were also made publicly, really getting a wide spread. it is therefore not possible for mr blatter to resign but to remain in office. but there is a need for a truly fresh and new interim chairman. you'll have to look into that. it is not a question of replacing one person by another, but of questioning structures. that is why it is imperative, for example, that the garcia report be made public, so that those who are now involved in reconstruction know the basics and draw the consequences. i think europeans are the ones who are in demand. how often do we talk about our right to stand up for certain values, to stand up for the rule of law, to stand up against corruption. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. or is it because it's such a great thing that we've turned a blind eye? has the media played its role in the past in terms of information? there is a difference. we have also - and this has just been pointed out - pushed this further, or at least tolerated it, by means of financial support, even through the media. i am grateful that a beginning has been made. it just needs to be used with determination. it is wise for the european parliament to intervene in this debate with clear demands. but then the football world has to do something. otherwise, more than one person's reputation is at stake.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not since 1951, there have been the pan american games and the asian games, since 1965 the african games, and since 2015 there have been the european games. a glorious idea by patrick hickey, the head of the european olympic committee, concocted together with asad rachimov, the sports minister of azerbaijan. it's no coincidence that the premiere of the european games 2015 has been announced? i'm going to azerbaijan. by any chance, which country is fully bearing the cost of this otherwise more than controversial sporting event? i'm going to azerbaijan. we were just discussing fifa and how we can bring the true values and the ideal of the honest businessman back into professional sport. we are now talking about the new little offshoot of the olympic games: all this in a country - i quote the german weekly die zeit - that has no voice in criticism, where human rights are clearly trampled underfoot. international prestige is important to azerbaijan, not just since hosting the eurovision song contest. baku will also use the olympic flame to put the country in a good light. baku promises us some magical games. let us ensure that in the end, there are three winners on the ladder: freedom, democracy and justice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the question of the responsibility of major sports associations is central to the issue of sport and human rights. whether it's fifa, the olympic committee or other associations, their influence on governments is far too great to be considered apolitical. it is clearly their human rights responsibility to think about what they can do within their means and then act accordingly. the decisive factor is the timing of the award. the procurement process needs to be fundamentally reformed. in addition to technical and economic aspects, human rights aspects must also be included in the assessment of the candidate countries. the scoring of an applicant country must take into account measurable social and human rights standards, such as press freedom indices or quantifiable assessments by international human rights bodies. the impact of the organisation of a major sporting event on the human rights situation must also be assessed. in azerbaijan, freedom of reporting was restricted before and during the baku games. azerbaijan is already ranked 162 out of 180 in the ranking of press freedom. and there is no sign of the political prisoners being released. that is why i appeal to the high-level political representatives of the eu institutions and the member states to refrain from attending the opening ceremonies as a visible protest against the serious human rights violations in azerbaijan.
a writer. the commission is not the killing in syria is not ending; thousands of people died in may alone, including more than 1,400 civilians. the terror of the islamic state often overlooks the fact that the assad regime is responsible for the majority of the deaths. neither the suffering of its own people nor international protests have stopped the syrian regime from regularly attacking civilian targets with barrel bombs. anyone who dares to speak out against the regime or the jihadists in syria is putting his life in danger. human rights defender mazen darwish has also raised his voice again and again. he and his colleagues hani al-zitani and hussein gharit were imprisoned, tortured and put on trial for their critical words. yesterday, mazen darwish's wife wrote to me, saying how worried she's been since her husband disappeared in early may. yara writes: we must find a solution to end this war madness. a step in the right direction would be for the government to release prisoners like mazen and many others who are working for peaceful and rational solutions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not our urgency resolution on the situation in syria today focuses on two important and pressing issues. firstly, the attack by the terrorists of the so-called islamic state on the ancient desert city of palmyra, one of the most important world heritage sites in the middle east. secondly, we call for the release of mazen darwish and his comrades from the custody of the syrian assad regime. his case is an example of what the european parliament can do to defend human rights. as meps, we have the opportunity to exert targeted public pressure. such pressure can sometimes be a decisive factor in obtaining greater freedom for the victims of political repression here. mazen darwisch has already been detained without trial for over three years. now the urgency of his case has increased once again. he was taken to an unknown location, and his family has not been in contact with him since 3 may 2015. the case of mazen darwish is representative of the brutal repression of the peaceful opposition by the syrian regime, over which russia still holds its protective hand. president assad has systematically persecuted human rights activists and independent journalists. i would also like to mention today the human rights organizations that have been working for years for the release of mr darwish and with whom we stand side by side, first and foremost his wife, yara bada, with whom we have been in close contact in the preparation of today's resolution. but also the organizations reporters without borders, amnesty international, human rights watch, which together with others, run a website for the human rights activists held in syria. i would also like to mention those who have honoured mazen darwish by their support for the struggle for human rights. these include the prize of the 16 lutheran towns, "the fearless word", the unesco world press freedom prize, the bruno kreisky prize for human rights, but also the pinter prize of the pen club.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was in syria last week and i personally took a picture of the situation. if we're talking about the success of isis, then of course we have to talk about the backers who are funding this enterprise. and so there was $10 billion in aid from qatar and saudi arabia last year alone. the syrian army recently stopped vehicles from turkey that had been carrying advanced american fighter jets, anti-aircraft and anti-tank weapons. i have been able to convince myself that there are 1.5 million palestinian refugees in syria, who should not be left alone either. i spoke with leaders of the christian, orthodox, anglican and armenian churches. and they all asked for help - not to get more christians out of syria, but to stay there because they can practice their faith freely there, along with the muslims.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in early april we visited members of the south asian delegation in nepal. we wanted to motivate the leaders of the main parties to finally adopt a constitution. it also dealt with climate change and human rights issues. remarkable progress has been made in this area. and we visited eu projects, including a hospital that is an early warning institution for disasters. we had no idea that two weeks later, 9,000 people would be killed in the earthquake of the century. hundreds of thousands lost their homes, farms, and livelihoods. temples, historical sites, and other sites that we had visited in kathmandu and baghdad no longer exist. the wave of solidarity is impressive: thousands of volunteers, the delivery of food, medicine and donations from all over the world - from my country, germany, alone, 60 million euros in four weeks. in the event of natural disasters, health institutions and local authorities need to network better, expand emergency systems. the fascinating nepal, with which i have been associated for years, should not and must not be left alone in the future! namaste! what are you doing?
i have to say, madam president, cooperation needs trust. without trust, there is no cooperation. the annexation of crimea has shaken confidence in russian foreign policy. it is not just about the european union's relations with russia. no, it is about the confidence of all, especially the smaller neighbouring countries. what's the russian embassy? either you do as i say, or i'll take a piece of your land. this can't be right. that is why the european strategy is twofold: firstly, to tell russia clearly that we do not accept this and that is why we have imposed sanctions, but secondly, to maintain the dialogue. the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe, and we must be able to take action to help the people of europe. that is why both are important: sanctions on the one hand, dialogue on the other. they still believe that human reason will prevail in the end.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because it is particularly important that the european parliament also speak out clearly against the illegal annexation of crimea. the conflict in southeastern ukraine can only be resolved politically on the basis of the minsk agreements. the international legal framework in force must be respected, including the maintenance or, if necessary, the strengthening of sanctions.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the strategic military situation in the black sea region. the resolution deals with the black sea region, but it is not objective, it is unilaterally hostile to russia and it has two measures. the fact that the west has also been involved in ukraine for many years with a large financial commitment is not mentioned. it is complained that russia has acquired a second kaliningrad with crimea, a second part of the territory with direct external borders to nato. the fact that the eu and nato are seeking to establish direct borders with russia themselves through accession considerations with regard to georgia and ukraine seems to have been forgotten. it also complains that russia is building up bases in the black sea and maintaining a fleet there. but nato countries also have a military presence there, which is not taken into account. it is logical that, in the light of this one-sided worldview, the resolution calls for the sanctions against russia to be maintained and even strengthened. remember the saying that in the end, troops will cross the border where goods are not allowed to do so. free trade instead of sanctions! i call for a de-escalation of all sides in the conflict. this resolution alone is contributing to the aggravation of the situation.
i have to say, madam president, it was embarrassing. there's a nonprofit that's building corrupt networks, and no one notices. help came here from the united states, which then brought down the corrupt network. today, the national sections of fifa are following the motto 'stop the thief' and are outdoing each other with proposals for improvement. to be clear, this is not just about solving a few bogus bank transfers. no, this is about eliminating corrupt networks in fifa. it is also about restoring trust in the many local associations that are literally standing their ground. my request at this point is quite simple: all the presidents and executive boards of the national branches and executive boards should ask for a vote of confidence in order to be re-elected, so that the new beginning can really and truly begin.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because the ongoing investigations in the usa, south africa and australia call for a rethink and reform of the world football association. the awarding of world cups must be more transparent and corruption must be curbed.
in writing. ‒ sport is based on fair play. this is the basic condition for anything to be called a sport. the fact that the world football association is now accused of corruption is inexcusable. that's why it was an important and necessary step for joseph blatter to announce his resignation. the ongoing investigations against high-ranking fifa officials make it clear that a corrupt system is not tolerated in any case. i therefore welcome the investigations by the us and swiss federal prosecutors so that in future the unhampered enjoyment of sport will once again be the priority. the allegations must be clarified without reservation. in addition, the awarding of the 2018 and 2022 world cup tournaments must now be reviewed.
in writing. ‒ the eu parliament now manages the budget of an international football organisation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. parliament shall record its opinion. my view is that the events at fifa should not be condoned. but first, it is the job of the prosecution to investigate, assess and punish the crimes. the european parliament should stay out of this. that is why i did not vote for this resolution.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to support, on behalf of my group, the motion tabled by mr philippe lamberts for the greens. it is indeed important that, in view of this debate and the situation in which we find ourselves, we do not reduce the debate we are having here in parliament to a debate which should be conducted only by the group spokesmen with a view to the greek debate. we need more time, we need more time to speak. it would be a democratic signal and also a signal that we take ourselves seriously if we also gave other members the opportunity to express their views on this question.
the president-in-office of the council. mr president, i would like to thank you for your work. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, before turning to the agenda, i would like to note that this is the last plenary session of the european parliament during the latvian presidency. it falls on the day when my country celebrates very important holidays, the true folk holidays of the autumn or summer solstice. in honour of this occasion and as this is the final plenary session of our presidency, i shall speak latvian today. the latvian presidency concludes its participation in the european parliament's plenary session with this very important debate on the preparations for the european council, the most important event to conclude the european semester. the agenda for the forthcoming european council is very packed. the european union's heads of state or government will be addressing migration, security and economic issues. but before i address these issues, i would like to briefly inform you about the informal meeting of the euro area heads of state or government on monday, which was convened at the initiative of mr tusk, president of the european council. it was intended to dispel the dangerous ambiguity about greece. the eurogroup heads of state or government exchanged views on the situation in greece and discussed the progress of negotiations between greece and its international lenders. with this meeting, president tusk wanted to change the dynamics of the current negotiations by giving them a new positive impetus. the meeting on monday was a real positive development. as president tusk has already indicated, the new proposals by the greek government are a positive step in the right direction, according to the initial assessment of the international lenders. it's important to take no action now. the prime minister of cyprus and the international lenders are already working to ensure that the eurogroup meeting this evening can produce results in finalising the elements of the greek reform plan to be presented to the heads of state and government tomorrow. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! turning to the agenda of the european council, i would like to begin by addressing the issue of migration. this will undoubtedly be one of the most important items on the agenda of tomorrow's european council. as we all know very well, the european council already decided in april 2015 on emergency measures to prevent further loss of life at sea and to find new ways to deal with smugglers. many, including in the european parliament, felt that the outcome of the april european council was not enough. i will say at once that the april european council was not and could not have been about solving all the problems of migration immediately. there is no quick fix to this very complicated situation. a sustainable solution is only possible within a targeted, comprehensive and balanced approach, systematically implemented step by step. the european council debate tomorrow will be the next step in implementing this approach. in the months since the april european council, the council and the commission have made a valuable contribution to the solution. the presidency, together with the european commission and the european external action service, presented the president of the european council with an updated action plan for implementation decided by the european council in april. the commission has also, as we know, published its communication on the european programme on migration. the council immediately started work on the various aspects of the communication as well as on the commission's specific proposals for the implementation of the measures contained in the european agenda on migration. the european council will focus tomorrow on three important elements of this policy: (1) relocation, resettlement and reintegration, (2) return, readmission and (3) cooperation with countries of origin and transit. these elements are closely linked and their effective implementation will best protect those in need of protection. but safeguards alone will not be enough. they must go hand in hand with an effective system for the return of irregular migrants. it is no secret that the council is currently engaged in a heated debate on the commission's proposal for the relocation of asylum seekers between the member states of the european union. the general affairs council discussions yesterday confirmed the consensus that a common european union response to the migration challenge is needed. a balance needs to be struck between solidarity and responsibility, which are essential components of the european union's migration policy. the ministers also reaffirmed their commitment to show solidarity and to find a solution to the emergency situation created by the migration flows. there is a consensus that there is a need for an appropriate mechanism to allow for an appropriate response to this emergency situation and to provide support to the so-called 'post' member states. but before that, a number of very important political and technical issues have to be resolved. member states differ on exactly what the european union's response should be and how it will respond to each individual eu member state. this makes the involvement of the european council all the more necessary and the guidance it provides for future decisions all the more necessary. the issue of migration is a very complex and politically sensitive one. this requires a thoughtful and balanced approach and does not involve quick fixes. the information received today is alarming: hungary is planning to unilaterally suspend the dublin system. unilateral action by individual member states is not the solution; only dialogue and joint action, consistently implementing the existing body of legislation, can address the challenges that exist. as i have already mentioned, it is therefore a comprehensive approach that is important, consistently put into practice and thus ensuring the necessary support in the short term and a sustainable solution in the future. it is already clear that the challenges of migration will remain at the top of our common agenda for a long time to come, and that intensive work will continue beyond the european council. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! the next item on the agenda of the european council meeting is devoted to security challenges. the european union's internal and external security has been faced with very serious challenges in the last year. europe and the world have undergone dramatic changes, and we now live in a very different geopolitical situation. the european council will review the work being done in the field of internal security and it should be noted that during the latvian presidency the council has indeed done a lot to strengthen security in the european union. on 16 june, the council adopted a renewed eu strategy on internal security, which took into account the input of the european parliament. we have made progress on a number of issues, such as a significant increase in the exchange of information between the competent authorities of the member states and the launch of the european union internet reporting unit set up by europol on 1 july. but at the same time we must continue to work towards introducing increased checks at the external borders of the european union. the commission will also be presenting a report on the implementation of the new eu-wide rules on the protection of personal data. the council therefore invites the european parliament to confirm its position so that we can continue to work together by launching a trilogue. as in the field of migration, the presidency, in cooperation with the european external action service, has prepared and will present to the president of the european council a report on the fight against terrorism. on the external aspects of security, the european council will discuss security and defence policy and will assess the progress made in this area since the european council conclusions of december 2013. this discussion will take place in a context of a new and significantly different internal and external security environment with new types of security challenges. in this context, it is important to note that the council agreed to launch a common security and defence policy operation (eunavfor med) in the mediterranean. at the same time, the european union needs a new strategy, which the european council will ask the high representative to draw up. the presidency also welcomes in particular the action plan on strategic communication prepared under the leadership of the high representative. this is an important step towards coordinating and strengthening the european union's capacity to counter disinformation campaigns by third parties. ministers continued their discussions in the general affairs council yesterday on ways of further strengthening the european union's strategic communication. new security challenges have also clearly demonstrated the need for the european union to strengthen its capabilities against hybrid threats. we therefore welcome the decision of the foreign affairs council of 18 may to develop proposals for the european union to combat hybrid threats by the end of 2015. we also expect the european council to stress the need to mobilise the european union's instruments to help better counter hybrid drugs. as the presidency, we welcomed the plan to keep security and defence policy issues on the european council's agenda on a regular basis. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! of course, economic issues will also be on the agenda of this european council. the european union's growth indicators show that the economic recovery in the eu member states has stabilised. the eu economy is expected to grow by 1.8% this year and to accelerate to 2.1% next year. the unemployment rate continues to fall. both external factors and policy measures have contributed to the positive turnaround. this is encouraging, but growth rates are low and there is a lot of work to be done to ensure that economic growth is long-term and sustainable. the three priorities of the annual cycle of economic policy coordination, or european semester, which had just ended, were: first, to promote investment; second, to implement structural reforms; and third, to develop a responsible fiscal policy. these priorities are the subject of recommendations for each member state of the european union and for the euro area as a whole, which were adopted yesterday by the general affairs council and will be endorsed tomorrow by the european council. (the speaker noted that there are problems with interpreting and expressed hope that they would be solved.) continuing with the economy, it is important to consider that ... (the speaker interrupted the talk because of a technical problem.) in the field of economic governance, one of the presidency's priorities was to ensure the success of the european semester in its new, improved form. (the speaker interrupted the talk because of a technical problem.) ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! as i have already said, one of the priorities of the presidency in the field of economic governance was to ensure the successful running of the european semester in its new, improved form. the early publication of country analyses and the increased focus on country-specific recommendations have a positive impact on national accountability. this in turn facilitates the implementation of structural reforms. these reforms are essential to enhance europe's competitiveness and to promote our economic recovery. the latvian presidency has laid a good foundation for regular discussions on the most important structural reforms that are relevant now and in the near future. the council also did a great deal to create the conditions for long-term and sustainable economic growth. i will give just three examples. firstly, we have managed to reach an agreement on the european fund for strategic investments in record time. i would like to thank the european parliament and the european commission from the bottom of my heart for the hard work that i hope will culminate in a positive vote by the european parliament this evening. secondly, the council has devoted a great deal of attention in this half-year to developing the potential of the european union's single market, including extensive discussions on the obstacles and priorities to the completion of the digital single market. we all know that if we do not adapt our society to the digital age, we will lose in every area: jobs, growth, competitiveness. the importance of digital technologies for innovation, economic growth and job creation was also highlighted by ministers at the general affairs council yesterday. the european council therefore intends to set priorities for further work in the light of the commission's digital single market strategy. this appropriation is intended to cover the cost of the training of staff and the purchase of equipment and software for the management of the european parliament's delegations. the european council is expected to give further impetus to the work on the digital single market by approving the key legislation. the latvian presidency has made every effort to ensure that the data protection regulation, the single market for telecommunications and the network and information security directive are being followed. finally, on the economic front, the european council will focus on the completion of the european economic and monetary union. on 22 june, the report of the five presidents on the completion of european economic and monetary union was published. the president of the european parliament, as we know, also took part in its preparation. the european council is expected to hold a first exchange of views on the report of the five presidents and work on the issues outlined in the report will continue in all relevant council formats during the luxembourg presidency. the report, which makes a number of recommendations for better managing economic and monetary union (emu), will be discussed by european heads of state or government at the june european council. i don't want to second-guess his assessment. i believe that the report contains ideas for making economic and monetary union progressively more effective in the short term and for completing the structure in the longer term. i would like to stress that every effort must be made to promote convergence. differences between euro area member states may threaten the future of the union and its economic development as a whole. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! the agenda for the forthcoming european council is packed with topical and important issues. i would like to hear your comments and opinions and look forward to an interesting and intensive discussion. thank you very much for your attention.
first vice-president of the commission. mr president, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen of the house. when president juncker addressed this parliament on 15 july last year, he told you that his first task was to rebuild bridges in europe. in fact, building bridges in europe, and beyond europe, is a highly european task and that is why he is not here today. he wishes he were here with you now, but he's trying to build bridges with greece right now. that is what we have all been doing in the last few months, in the last few days with greece: building bridges! because the european union is not meant to exclude, but to include, and in europe everything depends on a permanent dialogue which must be based on mutual understanding and respect. it's not always easy, it's not a long, quiet river, but it's something that we do when everyone is ready to build their part of the bridge. and we have to get a deal this week on greece. time is running out and we need to get straight to the point. there is no extension possible. it is imperative that we meet the expectations of the suffering greeks. the commission and president juncker are thinking of them. we are working for them, to help them to fight unemployment and social insecurity and to build their future on a sound and solid foundation. this means that we all have to take responsibility: the greek government, the eurogroup, the imf, the european parliament and the european commission. we must all commit ourselves to a new start for greece in terms of jobs, growth and investment, through the reforms it will be implementing, but also through the european funds. as soon as all the necessary conditions for an agreement are met, the commission is ready to activate or rather reactivate eur 35 billion from the european budget to support greece. president juncker will propose solutions to facilitate the absorption of the european structural and investment funds and to mobilise immediately, via pre-financing, large sums to start investment projects in the real economy. only through joint efforts will we reach an agreement acceptable to all, and we are convinced that this will be the case at the end of the european council in the next two days. building bridges is again what we must focus our efforts on throughout this european council. first of all, of course, on the question of immigration - the council has spoken about it - because if there is one area in which european solidarity can be shown, it is immigration. i was in the council yesterday and it is sometimes surprising how easily some member states ask for solidarity and how silent they are when asked for solidarity. we all agree that there is an urgent need to respond to the migration and humanitarian crisis facing all our countries. we have to do it one way or another, because everyone's going to have to deal with it sooner or later. that said - and it is right to have said it - the urgent need now is to agree on what must be done so that european solidarity is not a vain word, or a tear to shed at every tragedy in the mediterranean, and europe remains true to its values and its interests. the minute of silence at the european council must not be followed by months of silence when we need answers. (applause) what we need to do is reach out to those poor people who are risking their lives to leave their war-torn countries in search of the international protection to which they are entitled. it's about respect for human dignity. we must also give concrete expression to our solidarity with member states facing high migratory pressure. these are today's italy and greece. tomorrow it could be other countries. in any case, mechanisms of solidarity are needed, and we must put them in place now, acting together and not against each other. it is now, not tomorrow, because people are still dying in the mediterranean. let's be clear, we're not talking about quotas when we're talking about human beings. it's all a misunderstanding. we are talking about a redistribution key and we are not talking about a quota for asylum. we all have an obligation to show solidarity. president juncker will therefore strongly support the commission's proposals on relocation and resettlement, because they are necessary and strike a good balance between solidarity and responsibility. no member state has presented us with better solutions. (applause) i would like to thank we were told repeatedly, "we don't want this", but no other solution was offered. and i insist that the allocation between member states must be made on an effective basis, because experience has shown us that if it is voluntary, it does not work. we must therefore agree by the end of july on the practical arrangements for a fair and equitable distribution of resources between the member states in order to implement these measures as quickly as possible. the cost of our inaction today would be just as heavy for migrants as it is for europe, where solidarity must be shared. we have to take this step together. to do nothing now would be to deny our values, the values we hold dear. (applause) i would like to thank we know very well that some countries have opt-in, others opt-out, but europe is all the more credible when it gives its support to those who are most vulnerable and when it acts in unity and solidarity. and i welcome the fact that ireland, but also norway, switzerland and liechtenstein have made known their intention to participate in this relocation mechanism. we invite other countries to follow their example. on the other hand, if we are to be generous towards those who need international protection, we must be firm towards those who have no reason to stay in europe, and no need for international protection. this is why we have put forward proposals to strengthen our return and readmission policies. it is clear that the support of our people for a humane asylum policy is diminishing when people feel that those who are not entitled to asylum are abusing that asylum to stay anyway. we really need to look at this from both sides. and since it is not enough to combat the symptoms of the crisis, we must also strengthen our cooperation with the countries of origin and transit to tackle the causes of the crisis. we know these causes well. these are instability, war and poverty in libya, syria, iraq and across africa. here too, we must build bridges and develop more shared responsibility and cooperation with our african partners. the member states must increase their development aid at all costs. it's a must. we need 0.7% now, not tomorrow, not next year, but now! in terms of defence, from ukraine to syria, to the middle east and north africa, our neighbourhood is increasingly fragile and unstable. it would be naive to think that europe could be just a soft power. there can be no sustainable soft power without hard power, without integrated defence capabilities. again, this is a question of credibility. it is not a question of building a european army overnight. it is an old european project, a long-term project. nor is it a question of making the european union a counter-project to nato. we are not competitors, but partners, we must work together and be in step. what we need in the field of defence is closer cooperation, as the treaty of lisbon provides. we must do more together and not take separate and divided initiatives at national level. today, more than 80% of investment in defence equipment in the european union is spent at national level. so, even if only for budgetary reasons, here too we need to build bridges and cooperate more in defence markets, in research and innovation to meet common needs and challenges. finally, we must build bridges to the future and achieve economic and monetary union while preserving the integrity of the single market. the crisis has shown us that the euro is a protection. he brought us monetary stability. without the euro, we would have been living through very unpleasant times of unbridled national selfishness. but the protective virtues of the euro do not fall from the sky: they are directly linked to our ability to implement policies aimed at stability, balanced economic growth, a competitive social market economy in the service of full employment, social progress and the prosperity of citizens. this is precisely the aim of the proposals in the report - i see that the english translation works well - which has become the aim of the five presidents, since president juncker has also wanted to involve president schulz. the report includes an ambitious but pragmatic roadmap for achieving economic and monetary union. some of the initiatives proposed in this report can and should be implemented without delay. the first measures should be launched by the institutions as from 1 july 2015; the others require more time. above all, it provides clear direction, which is essential for citizens and economic actors and for confidence in the single currency. the first phase, or deepening through practice, starts today and runs until june 2017. it builds on existing instruments and the treaties in force to boost competitiveness and convergence, ensure responsible fiscal policies, complete financial union and strengthen the democratic accountability of economic and monetary union. the second phase of the completion of economic and monetary union will enable us to take more far-reaching action to make the convergence process more binding and to create a treasure trove for the euro area. the final phase by 2015 will provide a stable and prosperous framework for all eu member states that have adopted the single currency and an attractive environment for others. building economic union, financial union, budgetary union and political union in the way we propose, intelligently and calmly, in stages, is not an end in itself but a means of meeting the expectations of citizens and preparing the union for future global challenges. because europe is more than the single market and the single currency, europe is a large, vast and ambitious project for its citizens, but not just for its citizens. i want to end in my mother tongue. today in the netherlands there is a very famous and beloved singer and musician, the lau, and i would like to quote him on the end of my speech, because his most famous verse applies very much to the european council and to the spirit that, if i hope, will master the work of the members of the european council. i quote, "everyone is from the world and the world is from everyone".
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to limit myself today to two points which will certainly be discussed at the forefront of the council and which concern and move us all the most. the first is our eurozone, our currency in the european union, and above all, of course, greece. the european people's party wants greece to stay in the euro. we feel that the situation is serious these days, that difficult decisions have to be made. and jean-claude juncker in particular has the full support of his group for the negotiations, which he is now leading in a decisive way. i would also like to say that we europeans can take a little pride in what we have achieved in other countries, despite the economic and financial crisis we experienced five years ago. portugal, spain, ireland and cyprus are four countries which were programme countries and have already left the programme behind, but are now on their own again. now this week, greece remains the big question to be settled. i would like to begin by expressing my frustration at the enormous amount of time that has been wasted. we have been consulting on technical matters for months now, there has been talk, there has been talk. we have wasted time because greece - the new greek government - has not been able to put concrete proposals on the table. now, on monday, thank god, we finally got a text for the first time. i think it is worthwhile, after the first five months of a communist government, to take a look at what these new politicians have achieved, what has been achieved. it was also said that they had taken over a broken country and now they were going to build it up. let me take a look at that balance sheet. we had a situation in january where the greek state budget was in slight surplus. now that surplus has been merged, there is a deficit in the budget again. the pensions can't be paid out at the end of the month. it was the situation in january that we had a slight growth. after years of very difficult, disastrous economic development, we had a slight increase in january. what do we have now? a severe recession: no one is investing in greece anymore. we had banks that were fairly stable. today, the greek banks are facing a run on the banks. billions are withdrawn almost daily because their own citizens no longer have confidence in their financial institutions. the biggest promise was that now the rich in greece would finally have to pay. i think after five months, you have to ask yourself what happened to that promise. can the rich finally be asked to cash in? we have a communist government which has been destroying this country for the last few months, and that needs to be said. this is the balance sheet we are facing after five months of tsipras. we are still trying, we are still negotiating. the epp group considers conditionality to be an important point because greece needs a plan to get out of this negative spiral that is taking place there. that is why we are calling for a programme that the donors agree with greece on, and which at the end of the day offers a prospect for greece. i am saying explicitly that the ball is in athens. we need proposals from athens on how to solve the problems. we will also need a parliamentary majority in athens for this programme. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in cyprus. that is the situation we are in. you can feel that many of us in the group are frustrated by the behaviour of our greek partner. we will nevertheless support all efforts to keep greece in the euro. we owe this to the people of greece - not the government, but the people. in recent days thousands of people have taken to the streets of athens to demonstrate for the euro and for the help of the europeans. we in the epp group stand with these people. i would like to take up a second point, namely the issue of migration which has been discussed. we need legal channels for those who come to europe, especially for those who need our protection. the european commission's proposal, especially on the distribution of syrian refugees, is a good one. a proposal that normally no one can refuse. we therefore support the commission in remaining firm and in actually calling on the states to provide assistance to syrian refugees - as defined by the unhcr. however, i would also say on behalf of the epp group that we must bear in mind the figures and the abuse. last year, two thirds of all applicants in the european union were rejected. if we are to be realistic, we must also make it clear that europe must work to improve the security of its external borders. even at the outer edge of a continent, you can say, "you're welcome". and you can say to someone who has no legal reason, "you have to stay out". we cannot accept that refugees come from countries that are candidates for accession to the eu, with which we are negotiating, such as serbia, for example. we need clarification that these are safe third countries. i would also like to ask the turkish authorities to take over the repatriation of rejected applicants. i also believe, mr vice-president, that the commission should be more active in its discussions with the countries of origin in africa and asia on the matter of return policy, so that these agreements on return can finally be concluded. we need a balanced proposal: help on the one hand, a break with the extreme forces we have in europe, which unfortunately put all foreigners in the same boat, and on the other hand proper border security and the fight against abuse.
in writing. the 76th interparliamentary meeting between members of the us congress and the european parliament will take place in riga from 26 to 28 june. the common security and defence policy is on the agenda, as is the forthcoming european council. the european council will in particular examine the implementation of its decisions taken in february in response to the attacks in paris. this includes concrete protection of citizens, measures against radicalisation and cooperation with our international partners. the united states is our most important partner in this respect. we must work together to ensure that the internal and external dimensions of european security policy and the us approaches are properly integrated. because the major crises in north africa, the middle east and ukraine are easier to manage if we all act together. the european council's decision to adopt a new internal security strategy and to take stock of the common security and defence policy is not in competition with nato, but is a conscious and clear complement to it.
in writing. the summit of 25-26 june 2015 has an ambitious agenda. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the provisions on the protection of personal data and the protection of privacy. at the same time, we feel that the eu is not strong enough to deal with all these issues, because the eternal bailout of greece continues. the european bailouts want a fig leaf from greece so that they can continue to lie to their voters at home, and the greeks are not even delivering that. they admit that they are bankrupt and that the money they borrowed is gone, and they keep demanding new violations of the eurozone's laws. the euro countries are still playing along. they violated the law on the deficit criteria, the non-assistance clause, the cash distribution keys or the granting of ela loans. i have to say that in a recent request to the ecb there is no parliamentary control because the ecb's reply amounts to a refusal of information. i ask you, how is the eu supposed to function in the face of so many violations of the law? the problem is not just the euro, but also the dublin treaties on migration. now, huge systems of regulation are to be set up to govern the economy. if the law in the eu is clearly of little importance, then there is no hope of complying with the legal bases of new systems.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. no wonder we're all excited. it's about big things, it's about important things. europe does indeed have a massive investment gap: 200, 300 billion a year - those are the lowest figures the commission gives us. an investment gap in schools, transport connections, networks, broadband in the regions - broadband for all, so that value can go where people are. there are many things that are missing that we urgently need in the fight against climate change: building renovation, energy efficiency -- these are our big issues. it was therefore right that jean-claude juncker took a proposal from the political debate, from the election campaign, and said: 'if i become president of the commission - and he has kept his word - i will put forward a proposal to that effect.' it is a question of our efficiency and our viability, of our sustainability, of our economic and social systems. we have welcomed this proposal not because we say that it is already sufficient in volume, but because we say that it is a step in the right direction if we do it right. not all of the reactions felt good at first. member states - i say this with great dignity - were very reluctant to participate in this fund. i would like to ask you: what kind of european consciousness is it that one only participates in a project where there is an immediate juste retour? this is not the spirit in which we can work in the long term. the council should have some discussion on this matter. we need the european investment bank, but perhaps it too thought it could just go on as before. that would not be a good enough attitude either. and i want private investors to know that it can't be about take-away effects, it's about additionality. we want to open up markets, we want to give small and mediumsized businesses a chance, we want to create new jobs. that is why it has been consistent that parliament has worked together excellently across party lines and that we have set ourselves clear objectives. we want to invest in the future, not the past. the commission has therefore set clear objectives with investment criteria, with investment guidelines, with co-decision - this has been achieved - and with a scoreboard to ensure that the right priorities are being served. the volume is not enough. that is why we want to enable the regions, the member states, the promotional banks, the platforms to invest. yes, they should! the commission will make a statement today to ensure that this is not made any more complicated. and we need a clear level of management, clear responsibilities, the appointment of a senior executive director with the central involvement of parliament. for this successful project, which can be the beginning of something great, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs from the 15 committees of this house who worked in a very short time, and all the staff in the departments, for the good cooperation with the institutions. i believe that this parliament has proved that it is capable of doing good in a very short time for important and important things. we will continue to support the project.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the committee on budgetary control, all the members, have worked over the past period to ensure that we achieve better spending, more money for research and development, more money for transeuropean networks. so - i'm not going to hide it - we were very concerned at the beginning that efsi was challenging this very focus. we are therefore glad that through tough negotiations improvements have been achieved. we have also fought hard as the committee on budgetary control to ensure that the democratic control of expenditure - the audit, the economic control - is also ensured. it is a great success that the negotiations have succeeded in giving the european court of auditors the right to look at the books to ensure that the funds are spent efficiently and in the right place. the key now is to make the investments in the right places. it is important for us as guarantors that parliament's right of discharge is also guaranteed. i would like to thank the rapporteurs, the vice-president, mrs georgieva and the council for this compromise.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners and vice-presidents! as chairman of the epp group, i do not wish to add anything to the substance. i would also like to thank all those who have contributed to the success of this project: the commission, headed by jean-claude juncker, and vice-presidents katainen and georgieva, who are here today. i would like to thank our rapporteurs who have worked in a leading role. the fact that we have kept to the timetable is a great success for all of us as an institution. we have proven that we can give the citizens answers. and the idea that investment is necessary - as mr bullmann has said - is a key element of this plan. millions of people in europe may not be looking so enthusiastically at this technology that we are choosing today. but hopefully in a few years, they will say that this technology has created jobs, investments and the future of this continent. that's the hope that drives us all. i would also like to emphasize once again that this alone will certainly not be enough. the commission has also repeatedly pointed out that to create jobs money is needed, that investment is needed, but on the other hand, just as structural reforms and budgetary discipline, that this triangle of europe's reform efforts must always be seen. i would like to conclude with a political request. i had heard that this project, this programme, had been adopted by large majorities in the consultative committees, now covering all the parties, and that both the left and the right in the house, the extremes in our parliament, had rejected this project, this plan. so the extremes are against us doing this. i would like to make one wish, if i may put it this way: that in future, when motorway projects are inaugurated, when infrastructure projects are launched in europe, because we are setting this in motion, every speech will say that the democrats in europe made this possible and that le pen and the left were against this infrastructure being built. you have to communicate that. it's political majorities who want something, who are doing something positive. it is a good day for europe, and we have done it together.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the reduction of the budget has stifled investment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. i expressly acknowledge the efforts of the rapporteurs to improve the efsi. the efsi is a placebo for the sick man of europe. the planned investments are nevertheless served to private investors. that's expensive nonsense, because taxpayers pay the investors' returns. this solves the bank and insurance yield tax, but not the investment tax. to mr weber, the great bavarian democrat: the next time he inaugurates the motorway in bavaria together with the allianz insurance company and passes his anti-european car toll, please let him mention that i was not part of this project. the efsi is designed to turn eur 21 billion in guarantees into eur 315 billion in investments over three years. even if the juncker voodoo works, this represents only 0.8% of the eu's economic power per year. europe needs a public investment programme of at least 2% of gdp. the european investment bank could finance this today without jeopardizing its triple-a rating, for example by buying its bonds in an emergency, rather than aimlessly pumping liquidity into financial markets. the eib bonds are not subject to the stupid stability and growth pact, which castrates growth, not debt. 1 euro of public investment generates 1.60 euros of income. they create wealth for future generations. we do not need a placebo from juncker, we need a roosevelt in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is clear that the eu will use the efsi to generate investment and create jobs. the question is what investments, what jobs, and how long they will last. who will ensure that we create added value for the citizens of the eu? there is an insoluble conflict of interests here. because how can we identify new, profitable projects that have not been realized before? why have they not been implemented so far? i think that is a very obvious question and the commission has not been able to answer it because there is no sensible answer. we're going to create a lot of red tape instead. if we just imagine that we want to finance each project with an average of 10 million euros, then we have to finance 31 500 projects to get 315 billion euros in volume. what authority is supposed to do this, to do it better than the many thousands of company directors who already have it?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the juncker fund will trigger investment, it will encourage innovation in companies, it will improve transport infrastructure, the efsi will make a difference in broadband. all of these are positive aspects. i am even more annoyed that the money for the guarantees comes from the research and transport budgets. we get something valuable, but we give up something valuable. with horizon and the cef, the money comes from the very policy areas where we have struggled for european competence. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it has not even tried to get its hands on the agricultural or structural funds. we all know that billions of these funds are not used and are often used inefficiently. the fear of the member states must not lead us to accept suboptimal solutions. we will therefore do everything we can to ensure that research and transport funding will be returned in the next few years. the commission is speaking here and parliament will take it up!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr fernandes has already been praised by all, and rightly so. i would like to thank mrs van brempt, who negotiated on behalf of the committee on industry, for the gender balance and also for her personal merits. it is significant that the council is not here today. this discussion has given the impression that it is more appropriate to support the efsi than to invest in research and development or infrastructure. that was never the economic issue, i think, for anyone with a reasonable mind. the point is that the council was not prepared to give any money for the investments from the national envelopes or from other programmes, and that we were in a virtual emergency situation to support a real political, economic sign - basically cannibalizing one to get the other. i would like to say again that today is a good day and i am not opposed to research, development and transport. the hope is that the fund will succeed in this way too. but i want to make one thing clear, and we should remember this: we once decided to spend 3% of gross national product in europe on research and development, and we are now at less than 2%. i therefore ask that this situation, which may have been politically and economically necessary, be remedied by maintaining the old commitment and trying to increase the appropriations in the annual budget procedure. otherwise - and i call mr katainen to that - he may have to spend many more early morning hours in this parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commission for its comments. i agree with you: we need more investment for europe. the trialogue agreement on the european fund for strategic investments certainly provided a very good basis. i would like to make a few brief remarks, however. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the efsi and its impact on the financial markets. investment decisions must remain investment decisions. and we need a project selection process that is focused on quality, sustainability and legal certainty. this includes a concrete examination of the actual added value of each project proposal. i also welcome the fact that the agreement establishes the principle of risk diversification. this means that all regions and sectors can benefit from this fund. and this means that not only large projects can benefit, but also small and mediumsized enterprises. we do not want to create a new bureaucratic fund, but a stable and attractive framework for investors. this is the only way to promote growth in europe. investment and a forward-looking economic policy are two sides of the same coin. europe must make further efforts here. investing in projects alone will not be enough, we must also continue to invest in our reform efforts, in our competitiveness. this is the only way to ensure that the investment plan is successful in the end. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for asking. i believe that the framework conditions for this fund have ensured that decisions can indeed be taken here, independent of direct political influence. i am very confident about that, which is why i have raised this point. i am also very confident that small and mediumsized enterprises will be able to benefit from this fund in the end. i think the conditions are right. we have discussed this and we have seen it many times in the negotiations. so i think we've gotten off to a good start.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what is now article 14 of the regulation, namely transparency, the european parliament's powers of control and the european court of auditors' powers of control, were already very important points for us, and i am very grateful to the rapporteur for them. josé manuel, the invitation to dinner is ready. i would like to tell you that you must always disclose to us the question of how much private capital we actually attract with the fund. we know that there will be a lot of tax money, including the purchase of secondary bonds by the european central bank. i therefore believe that what we do with it now in the coming months and years - what you as the commission, but also what we as parliament do with it, how we bring this agreement to life - is crucial. i would encourage you to provide us with as much information as possible and as transparently as possible. we are faced with the same administrative procedures, the same administrations, the same lack of authorization, the same objections, the same lengthy legal proceedings. perhaps the point should now be addressed in a second wave as well. otherwise, the first step may not have gone long enough or far enough.
for the next catch-the-eye procedure, let me first point out that i have almost four times as many verbal messages as i can give. i shall therefore not take into account colleagues who are still on the list of speakers today. i have tried to strike a balance between the groups and the member states in which the members are elected. catch the eye
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, after my conclusion, my colleague georgieva would like to issue a statement on behalf of the commission. thank you very much, dear colleagues, for your opinions and advice. now we are turning to the implementation phase, and it is very important that we all pass the message on in our member states – first of all to companies. if you have a plan to invest in something which is considered a high-risk project, or if it is difficult to get financing purely from the private financial sector, you can call on the european investment bank and ask if they could help get financing. nobody can guarantee this, but companies do not need any governmental approval; they can contact the eib today or tomorrow. there are lots of hardworking people at the eib, and they are willing to help the companies in their investment plans. the second message, which i hope we all could pass on in our member states, is that we need a local intermediary for sme financing. i have visited 24 member states since the beginning of the year, and in every single country i have heard the same message. in most cases, smes can get financing from the banks, but venture capital is a very scarce resource. there is a lack of equity financing everywhere. so, if countries are interested in improving sme financing, it is your duty to establish a local intermediary. it can, of course, be a commercial bank, but in many cases national development banks or promotional banks can be an intermediary for smes. private venture capital funds can also apply for resources from the efsi and serve their clients. this is the message i am constantly passing on when visiting member states, and i hope everybody here does the same. the final comment is that we strongly encourage member states, as well as the regions of member states, to establish national or regional – and sometimes cross-border – investment platforms. it basically means a special-purpose vehicle into which public money can be put. national promotional banks can finance those vehicles and pension money can go there. insurance companies can chip in and apply risk financing from the efsi and opt to protect themselves and finance those high-risk private sector or public-private partnership projects. implementation is very important. the eu cannot implement this beyond what we have done already. we need an sme intermediary, we need a message to bigger companies that you can contact the eib already today, and we need national or regional investment platforms. this is the way, madam rodrigues, in which the efsi can help to create new jobs.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, during the negotiations, we in the commission made a commitment to make a declaration on the 2016 draft budget. i would like, for the record, to read the text of this declaration: ‘the commission will analyse the potential impact of the contributions to efsi of the different budget lines of horizon 2020 on the effective implementation of the respective programmes, and will, if appropriate, propose an amending letter to draft budget 2016 to adjust the breakdown of the horizon 2020 budget lines’. i would also like to assure parliament that commissioner moedas and his services have been working on this task. in conclusion, i would like to confirm that we are determined, in the annual budget procedure, to look for any opportunity to reduce the impact on the two programmes which are, together with the margins, the foundation for us to be able to move forward.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. three comments to let us know that there is still work to be done tomorrow. first remark: i do not think that we should allow the member states and the council to get away with this in future little or no ownership, at the same time red lines, which cannot happen, and the hope that everything will pass as quickly as possible, as long as only the money from the european budget is used, is not an attitude that we, the european chamber of citizens, will accept. in view of the emergency situation in europe, this institution must find a different consciousness. i would like to make a few comments on the report by mr de gucht. i would like to thank both commissioners for the clarity and correctness with which the agreements have been implemented again today, with a warning addressed to them and to the european investment bank: we mean what we have negotiated. that is the agreement on the content. we will hold the eib and the commission accountable in the governing council for ensuring that there are good products, that there are good results, and this also applies to the selection of people. we will insist that the best be taken and not let anything else take its place. i would like to make a final point to my colleagues and their staff. the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs have done an excellent job, especially those who have worked with them in the departments, in the personal offices and in the group offices, as always. i am very grateful to them for what they have done, for bringing the european spirit back to life in this house. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr fernandes, for his work.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place this evening, 24 june. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. our efforts to close the investment gaps created by the economic and financial crisis must not be allowed to falter. as members of parliament, it is our duty to adopt measures which will break down the ever-increasing inequalities between regions and restore people's confidence in the union's economy. we can only bring about real change if we effectively drive economic recovery in the member states. and for economic recovery, new investment is needed. i particularly welcome the fact that a large part of the money is going to small and mediumsized enterprises, the backbone of our economy.
in writing. the european fund for strategic investments needs to be stepped up to create good and sustainable jobs. the announcement that he wants to get a 'triple a social rating' for europe must now be followed by action by commission president juncker. the investment fund must not be used to create precarious employment conditions. there must be no investment for the sake of investment. it is important to ensure that the projects supported by the eu have a sustainable impact and that they create quality jobs. the selection of projects must not only take into account the speed with which the project can be implemented, but also the fact that it will create high-quality jobs. investment in social and care professions is urgently needed in view of demographic change and an ageing population. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. it is important to ensure that the money goes where it is needed most. we will only regain the citizens' trust in the european project if we succeed in making europe fairer.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs pervenche berès, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the review of the economic governance framework: an assessment and challenges (2014/2145 (ini)) (a8-0190/2015).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i cannot share the optimism expressed by many speakers. the berès report, like the five presidents' report, is another step towards fiscal union, another step towards the pooling of risks and burdens. but the responsibility for these risks and burdens remains at the national level, where it belongs. but the nations do not necessarily have to bear the consequences. we see that new mechanisms are being introduced, such as fiscal capacity. we see that now minimum wage legislation is being demanded in all the countries of the european union. we are seeing massive interference with the economic autonomy of the individual member states of the european union. all because you think you have to steer economic policy. and why do we need to control it economically? the misery has been well described by my colleague mrs ferreira: because the euro and the economic policy have not worked so far, because the system which is now to be improved more and more has failed. but it is not being improved, it is being pushed further down the wrong path. we should return to the original principles of the maastricht treaty, we should return to the clear and simple rule that there is a principle of non-assistance and that each state bears responsibility for its own actions and has to pay its own debts. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. it is a question of sovereign rights and not so much of sovereignty. it is a question of the powers laid down in the european treaties. and it is precisely here that economic and fiscal policy is clearly a national and not a european competence. the fact that the vehicle of monetary union is being used to build a fiscal union is an abuse of the powers of the european commission, the council and parliament, which does not properly respect the rights of the nation states.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the current situation in the eurozone calls for responsible policies, greater commitment and greater commitment in the member states. it requires compliance with the rules in our treaties. it requires a shift towards a social market economy and towards a market-based regulatory policy. unfortunately, this is not mentioned in the report. the report is not a great report, it lacks perspective. the five presidents have made a forward-looking contribution to the restructuring of public budgets, to stimulating growth and creating jobs, but this report does not mention this. it is falling behind positions which we thought we had overcome in the past. the country-specific recommendations are not merged with the deficit procedure and the macroeconomic imbalance analysis. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the future of the euro, but it is still too early to say whether it will be adopted or not. we consider it absolutely unacceptable, even dangerous, to call for the six-pack to be tightened at the expense of fiscal discipline. the eu commission's communication on flexibility, which we consider to be partly unconstitutional, is expressly praised here. we reject that! it is not enough that the mere announcement of structural reforms is already taken into account in the examination of the eu commission without parliament's decisions and without their implementation. no, we need more, not less, commitment, more, not less, regulation, more, not less, implementation and support of reform policies by national parliaments and governments. the present report does not do all this. on the contrary, it opens the door to the weakening of the stability and growth pact. that is why the alde group cannot agree to this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the crucial point is that the troika does not exactly dictate what is to be done. and when mr moscovici of the commission points out that greece spends 17.5% of its gdp on pensions, whereas the euro average is only 13%, that is an indication that action is needed. the old principle applies: you cannot spend more than you earn. so i simply ask that the economic problems in greece be addressed. we can do this together: through a market economy, not a planned state economy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not going to the hospital. they have mentioned current account surpluses and linked them to wage dumping. i would like to know whether you believe that wage dumping is being practiced in germany because germany has large current account surpluses. or is it more that we find that those countries in europe that pay high wages tend to have current account surpluses as well?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr valli, the euro is neither the cause nor the solution of the problems, but the problems are in the real economy. do you agree that we cannot combat excessive public debt by increasing it, and that jobs cannot be created by credit-financed stimulus programmes, but only by innovation, by products that can be sold on world markets, that is, by the real economy, and above all, of course, by improving the conditions for small and mediumsized enterprises that create jobs?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rules on economic governance were revised and substantially strengthened in 2011. why would you do that? because a previous relaxation of the rules had led to member states living beyond their means, delaying reforms and postponing problems to the future. we were then in the debt spiral that had fuelled the economic and financial crisis. this is why strengthening economic governance in 2011 was so important and right. we are therefore firmly against a backward roll. we therefore do not accept any relaxation of the rules. we are only in favour of the owninitiative report because it makes it clear that no legislative changes are required. that is our clear message to the commission. and the commission is called upon to apply the existing rules, with the possibilities and within the clear limits that the regulatory framework imposes on all member states equally. national responsibility and participation must be given greater prominence. europe cannot be the scapegoat for wrong decisions which are within the national sphere of competence. we very much welcome the fact that the regulatory framework was extended in 2011 to include the macroeconomic imbalance procedures. macroeconomic imbalances are created within member states, contrary to legend. early detection of such imbalances and their correction through structural reforms is essential to preventing future sovereign debt crises. the economic and monetary union must become more resilient. but that is only possible if we look squarely at the cause of today's crisis. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. you are supposed to think that because greece has certainly lived beyond its means in recent decades, it was unsound and of course that is the problem. i believe that the finance ministers, the heads of state and government are very serious about finding solutions. i hope we can find some solutions. but one thing is clear: in the past, a lot of things have gone wrong. and now simply saying we can cancel debts here or should cancel debts here, can't be the solution in the end either.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this european union is a union of solidarity. we have a redistribution of structural funds each year to weaker groups and regions. 50 billion euros, that's multiple times the marshall plan every year. that's my answer to my predecessor, if he's still listening. i think that the presidents' report and the berès report go hand in hand well. there are many dreams we had, some of them different dreams, that didn't come true. but i think it is important that we first make it clear that the european parliament must play a role and have a say in the conversions, in the guidelines, and that is why the institutional agreement is important, as is the ownership of the national parliaments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. i believe that both reports are moving in a direction which the decisions we have taken so far, the sixpack and many others, make clear that there is an intrinsic link between fiscal solidity and structural reform. structural reforms are a prerequisite for growth. growth is only possible with competitive structures. and for that we must have european solidarity, through the structural funds, through a euro-zone budget or whatever, with the involvement of the european parliament, to further stimulate growth. in this respect, it is particularly necessary to support and encourage countries which are taking positive steps. i think we should remember that the agreements with the fiscal compact and similar intergovernmental agreements must be incorporated into community law in accordance with the obligation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you know the story of the three little pigs, the first pig builds his house with straw, and when the wolf comes, he can just blow the house away. the straw house is the euro of the maastricht treaty. the idea was excellent, but the implementation was not yet crisis-proof. the second piglet builds his house out of wood, which is more stable. this is the euro with the esm, with the banking union. but also with the very complicated rules of the two-pack and the six-pack. in our picture, you can think of the new rules as very complicated cross-sections within the house that are supposed to make the house more stable. unfortunately, they also make the house a little unusual. you have to be constantly afraid of tripping over a rafter in the house or hitting your head on it. what a man does to be prepared for the wolf in the wooden house! but if the wolf did come, he could still blow up the wooden house. so the question is, when are we going to put the house of stone on the table? i congratulate pervenche berès and the five presidents who call for the stone house. we must finally get serious about a new architecture for the euro, because we do not know when the wolf will actually come. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate. the wolf in the case of the hay house was the financial market crisis, which actually made the rules we had devised in the maastricht treaty seem unable to withstand a crisis. the wolf today, for example, is the great crisis in greece, from which we have not yet found a way out. and the next wolf could be another financial crisis. it could also be a political crisis, with growing euroscepticism. we should not wait too long, then: if the house becomes unfamiliar, support for europe will be diminished.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i've listened to this a few times now. we are, by a large majority, prepared to help greece. but do you not think that you should now start to pursue the reform processes there so that your country becomes competitive, like spain, portugal and ireland, so that the money that others give you can lead to growth in your country? or do you think you don't have to do anything and it's all right when the others give you their money?
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the stability and growth pact was substantially strengthened in 2011. the european parliament and the european commission have jointly reached the point where member states can no longer decide alone. now that the commission has more rights, we must be able to rely on the commission to exercise them properly. the lessons of the sovereign debt crisis show that proper compliance with the rules of economic and monetary union is essential for survival. the crisis was a close call, and we absolutely must learn from it. the commission has a particularly heavy responsibility. we want to remind the commission of this responsibility today, clearly and forcefully. the rules of the stability and growth pact must apply equally to all member states. there is no big and there is no small when it comes to debt levels and deficits. numbers are numbers. they'll stay that way even if you turn them upside down. we do not accept that economic analyses are misused or reinterpreted at will. we want to make the assessments of the commission and the council widely available to the member states. we want an independent chief economic analyst whose analyses we can read. we want the analyses to be carried out independently for all member states. we therefore call on the commission: the commission has already made a number of proposals. the credibility of the stability and growth pact is at stake, and with it the foundation and the viability of our economic and monetary union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am a little surprised to have heard the speeches of the previous speakers, because they seem to speak from the standpoint that there are objectionable methods, as if economic analysis is something like an exact science where you can measure clearly and unambiguously. ladies and gentlemen, that is simply not the case! i speak as a former professor of economics: there is always a lot of discretion, a lot of different assumptions that you can base your analysis on, a lot of different numerical values that you can put into the calibration, a lot of different methods that are not a priori right or wrong. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the application of the stability and growth pact will always be opaque - we must face that. the stability and growth pact, in the form in which it currently exists, is simply not transparent per se. the only way to arrive at rules that are easier to understand would be to go back to the basic elements of the maastricht treaty, namely the non-assistance clause.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the revelations surrounding the lux leaks scandal have revealed a dimension of aggressive tax avoidance by international corporations that many of us could not have imagined. we therefore had to act here, and i am glad that parliament has now set up the special committee which i had already called for in november for the alde group. our expert hearings and site visits clearly show the need for action. firstly, it is a matter of competition. experts estimate that these aggressive tax avoidance models of the large corporations put small and medium-sized enterprises at a disadvantage of 20-25%. it is not possible that large corporations with billions in sales pay less than one percent in taxes. but what is the right response to this situation? the commission has put forward proposals which we welcome: on the one hand, the automatic exchange of information a minimum requirement. and we learned during a visit to switzerland, where there is tax competition between the cantons, that a common tax base is also important because then the competition is based on the different tax rates and no longer on an erosion of the tax base. but we also see that our tax models are under pressure in a globalized, digitized global economy as a whole. and we say that we need an area of tax justice and fair tax competition within the european union. we also need solutions for the so-called patent boxes, i.e. for the deductibility of licences and interest. we need to take account of the economic substance so that profits are not deducted, absorbed and then practically not taxed at all. in any event, double non-taxation is incompatible with the principle of fair tax competition.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. europe's taxpayers lose over a trillion euros a year through tax evasion and avoidance. the commission is postponing consolidation of corporate taxes, rather than using luxleaks pressure, until juncker money is overrun. corporations can continue to push and trick profits and losses across borders. we need public country-by-country reporting, like in the banking and commodities sectors, and public information exchange on tax rulings, because i do not trust the finance ministers. we need more tax investigators, not fewer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayers' money is not used to finance the cost of the tax. this is hypocrisy! journalists and whistleblowers are on trial in luxembourg, and the eu commission wants to further soften its protection through the trade secrets directive. what employee or what smes can invoke their trade secrets before the tax office? it's a shame, you punish the decent people, not the tax evaders.
i have to say, madam president, after four months of work in the taxe special committee of inquiry, i think it is safe to say that we are dealing with state-organized tax dumping. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxation of companies in the european union is not distorted. it is therefore important that the eu commission takes a first major step forward with the action plan. it is important that we arrive at a uniform basis of assessment for corporation tax. but it is very important that we go beyond the assessment base to consolidation within europe, and we support the commission in all its efforts to make timely progress here too. a country-by-country reporting, so that we know who pays taxes where, is important. we therefore welcome the fact that the first steps have been taken in this area by means of a public consultation. second and third steps must follow. i would like to expressly encourage the european commission at this point to go beyond what is contained in the plan and to take up the sharpest weapon that remains in the hands of the european commission, which does not need the member states, or even this house, to implement it. the aid law which you now apply in six cases is applied on a case-by-case basis. in other areas of law outside taxation, the european commission has shown how it provides clear, unambiguous rules for competition law through guidelines that apply in the member states, how it does not leave open any rules of the game that allow unfair competition in the member states. the same is possible in the field of taxation: guidelines that clarify when there is an unlawful aid in the field of corporate taxation. we want the same kind of guidance. the commission has demonstrated its ability to do this in other areas of law. please check here in the tax section.
the commission has already done so. we're talking about nothing more and nothing less than justice. the term has been used very little in the debate, but that is the central point. the aim is to ensure that every taxpayer is taxed according to his capacity and contributes to the tasks of the public administration. it is simply a scandal that multinational corporations can evade this taxation, this duty to contribute to the common good. we must therefore take decisive action here, we must fight this kind of tax evasion or tax evasion decisively. the proposals made here are good proposals, and in some cases they are even too timid. in fact, consolidation of the corporate tax base is a crucial element in our ability to achieve tax fairness. we cannot simply put this off by saying: 'this has to be done globally.' we must take the first step in the eu.
the commission has already done so. tax competition is part of the european single market and the competition of tax systems is not in question. taxation is different, just as the member states have different social security systems. the member states themselves know best who they tax, for what and at what rate. the eu should therefore not interfere in taxation. however, we need to act in europe when multinational companies exploit our different tax systems, when they undermine the tax base, when they write invoices to each other within the group until there is hardly any tax to pay in belgium, the netherlands or the united kingdom - to name just a few countries where this is unfortunately common. the commission is doing the opposite, which i very much welcome. we therefore need a common corporate tax base in the european union, we need a much more binding exchange of information between national tax authorities, we need country-by-country reporting. and we need - and i think this is very important - to do more to name and shame the member states that resist. taxation must be paid where firms produce and where they provide services. what is taken for granted by the craftsman at home must become a duty for the big corporations in europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. not only that. if we had an additional 150 billion, we could also provide tax relief elsewhere, especially for smes. we could start new start-up programmes, we could invest more in infrastructure. the european taxpayer and the european public treasury are losing so much money that we could certainly do a lot for the competitiveness of the european union in this direction. thank you for asking.
in writing. ‒ the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is designed to boost economic growth, employment and recovery in europe. the new initiative promises to enable €315 billion of new investment over three years, largely financed by the private sector. what is not so clearly stated, however, is the fact that the european investment bank is liable for default. in practical terms, this means that the taxpayer is liable for the default risks of private entrepreneurs. the commission has not yet decided whether the efsi should be considered as a new investment. it is inconceivable that a new authority can make better decisions than thousands of company directors. if this task were to be taken seriously, thousands of civil servants would have to be rehired. this is a step towards a planned economy on the part of the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial instruments are used in a proper manner.
in writing. ‒ the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is designed to boost economic growth, employment and recovery in europe. the new initiative promises to enable €315 billion of new investment over three years, largely financed by the private sector. what is not so clearly stated, however, is the fact that the european investment bank is liable for default. in practical terms, this means that the taxpayer is liable for the default risks of private entrepreneurs. the commission has not yet received any comments from the french authorities on the compatibility of the efsi with the internal market. it is inconceivable that a new authority can make better decisions than thousands of company directors. if this task were to be taken seriously, thousands of civil servants would have to be rehired. this is a step towards a planned economy by the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial instruments are used in a proper manner.
in writing. ‒ creating growth and sustainable jobs is the primary objective and guiding principle of the ambitious juncker plan. the european fund for strategic investments is at the heart of it. it is badly needed because, despite the significant recovery in many member states following the economic and financial crisis, there is still a significant investment gap. the efsi is a key element in increasing the level of investment and thus in stimulating the european economy. in combination with other financial instruments, it has the potential to provide the right impetus. the planned eur 345 billion could create or safeguard 1.3 million jobs. the quality of the investment committee's recommendations will determine the success of attracting large-scale private capital. particular attention must be paid to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. they are the backbone of our european economy and have enormous employment potential. this one needs to be released. the efsi should therefore make an effective contribution to stabilising the labour market in the short term and to the necessary growth throughout the european union in the long term.
in writing. ‒ the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is designed to boost economic growth, employment and recovery in europe. the new initiative promises to enable €315 billion of new investment over three years, largely financed by the private sector. what is not so clearly stated, however, is the fact that the european investment bank is liable for default. in practical terms, this means that the taxpayer is liable for the default risks of private entrepreneurs. the commission has not yet decided whether the efsi should be considered as a new investment. it is inconceivable that a new authority can make better decisions than thousands of company directors. if this task were to be taken seriously, thousands of civil servants would have to be rehired. this is a step towards a planned economy on the part of the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial instruments are used in a proper manner.
in writing. ‒ little concrete, a lot of leverage, a lot of hope that's the efsi. a €315 billion investment fund is set to boost the economies of eu member states. there is no doubt that economic performance in many member states needs to be improved, and it is the task of national governments and national parliaments to set up national programmes tailored to their own infrastructure. the efsi is to be financed only from re-allocated funds from the eu budget and a capital injection from the european investment bank. the eu budget will be re-allocated to the research investment programme 'horizon 2020' running at the same time. it's not planned. in addition, the efsi only provides guarantees and acts as 'eu insurance' for investment projects that professional lenders do not want to risk. the eu commission is now looking to mobilise private capital for risky investments. however, commission president juncker cannot credibly explain the projected leverage effect 1 euro of taxpayers' money invested = 15 euro of private investment. the efsi is the wrong way and a lot of eye-washing, which is why i reject it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it is an important and effective tool for continuously addressing the impact of the global financial and economic crisis on workers and the self-employed who have been made redundant or have had to leave their jobs. it is our duty to enable and facilitate the re-entry of all those affected into the labour market. the egf is also an effective tool in the fight against youth unemployment - a subject which is of particular concern to me.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to help support workers who lose their jobs as a result of global economic change in the event of major redundancies. as important as the social dimension of market developments is, it must be stated that this fund is a misconstruction. the eu is thus taking over tasks which, in the sense of subsidiarity, are the responsibility of the nation states. but we do not want a european superstate in which brussels intervenes in all areas of life. the egf is a step towards a european unemployment insurance scheme. this cannot work well in the eu. for this reason, the egf and, consequently, projects to be financed by it, must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to help support workers who lose their jobs as a result of global economic change in the event of major redundancies. as important as the social dimension of market developments is, it must be stated that this fund is a misconstruction. the eu is thus taking over tasks which, in the sense of subsidiarity, are the responsibility of the nation states. but we do not want a european superstate in which brussels intervenes in all areas of life. the egf is a step towards a european unemployment insurance scheme. this cannot work well in the eu. for this reason, the egf and, consequently, projects to be financed by it, must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is designed to help support workers who lose their jobs as a result of global economic change in the event of major redundancies. as important as the social dimension of market developments is, it must be stated that this fund is a misconstruction. the eu is thus taking over tasks which, in the sense of subsidiarity, are the responsibility of the nation states. but we do not want a european superstate in which brussels intervenes in all areas of life. the egf is a step towards a european unemployment insurance scheme. this cannot work well in the eu. for this reason, the egf and, consequently, projects to be financed by it, must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ the globalisation fund was set up to help in the event of short-term emergencies due to mismanagement, globalisation or the financial and moral crisis in the member states. the support includes training, start-up aid, coaching and outplacement of redundant workers. the globalisation adjustment fund co-finances these job creation measures at 50% or 65%, with the remainder being provided by the member state concerned. the european commission is thus becoming a gigantic labour market agency. however, the european court of auditors decided in a special audit report that this 'globalization fund' provided only limited eu added value and should be replaced by a more efficient scheme. it was explicitly stated that this globalisation fund was not the best way to provide urgently needed specific support. and yet the eu continues to pursue policies that have been proven to be inefficient. i cannot agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the review of the economic governance framework, together with the review of the europe 2020 strategy and the european semester, is urgently needed. the current difficulties in greece show that we need better economic policy coordination. the stability and growth pact provides us with a set of rules which must be applied consistently. but we must also consider whether and where improvements are needed.
in writing. ‒ the report was designed to take stock of the current state of budgetary management, in particular to assess the functioning of the regulatory framework and to describe future challenges. the report fails to meet this task because it does not systematically analyse the status quo. instead, it calls for the centralisation of economic policy and the pooling of responsibility in the euro area. this leads to a further separation of responsibility for expenditure and liability and to a breach of applicable european law, in particular the non-assistance clause (article 125 tfeu).
in writing. ‒ solidarity is not a one-way street we also need solidarity! the triangle of a consistent course of reform, the will to bring about real structural change and strict budgetary discipline is the answer. on this basis, european taxpayers are prepared to provide aid to the people of other member states. it may be tempting for politicians to make lavish campaign promises. in the end, this populism is irresponsible, because the next generation has to pay the price. and investors punish unsound households and debt-makers mercilessly. the result is capital flight, unstable markets and significant financial problems, for example for the promotion of social policy measures. i have successfully tabled motions in both the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on economic and monetary affairs. they noted positive developments, including the increase in full-time contracts and improvements in the labour market situation in some, but not all, member states. a measured and targeted austerity policy has strengthened confidence in the euro area. ireland and portugal are thus considered to be rehabilitated; cyprus and spain are on the right track. and the new banking union offers sufficient protection. so let us remain steadfast on this path of stability! but let's also leave room for adjustment and fine-tuning without changing the overall course.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by my social democrat colleague, pervenche berès. the report is a good and honest assessment of the current european capacity for economic policy management. it clearly shows where we urgently need to improve. the aim should be to achieve greater harmonization of the 28 national economic policies. this requires a central european collection of economic data. so far, europe has had to rely on the analyses of the nation states in its economic policy. the need to adapt budgetary rules to economic policy realities is urgent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the national states must be given the opportunity to invest in industries of the future. the unilateral austerity policy pursued so far has led to a further increase in public debt in some european nation states. i also supported the reform policies presented in the report, which are oriented towards the interests of workers and not just the interests of trade associations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. this has to end once and for all.
in writing. ‒ the report was designed to take stock of the current state of budgetary management, in particular to assess the functioning of the regulatory framework and to describe future challenges. the report fails to meet this task because it does not systematically analyse the status quo. instead, it calls for the centralisation of economic policy and the pooling of responsibility in the eurozone. this leads to a further separation of responsibility for expenditure and liability and to a breach of applicable european law, in particular the non-assistance clause (article 125 tfeu).
in writing. ‒ since 1999, european economic governance has become increasingly complex, but has not produced any significant results. the financial, economic and confidence crises have led to the creation of more new eu legislation than ever before in the last five years. the name is a programme: a 'european economic policy' will inevitably lead to a loss of national autonomy in the economic, financial, social and fiscal policy areas of the member states. the constitutionality of european economic policy has long been the subject of well-founded doubts. but this own-initiative report ignores this. the eu intends to use the 'european economic governance' control element to intervene in the national budgets of the member states and to influence national tax legislation, wage developments and social benefits. binding country-specific recommendations are a direct attack on the principle of subsidiarity. concrete proposals for european economic policy also include the establishment of a central eu budget, a european unemployment insurance scheme, the issuing of eurobonds and institutional strengthening of the eurogroup. i reject that.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday 24 june 2015.
ladies and gentlemen, today we remember the people who were murdered in the massacre in the bosnian town of srebrenica 20 years ago. in the course of a few days, 8,000 boys and men were systematically and brutally murdered in the middle of europe. the worst war crime in europe since the end of the second world war took place in srebrenica before the eyes of the world - an act of genocide that should never have happened, a collective failure of the international community that still deeply embarrasses us today. we bow to the victims. on behalf of the european parliament, i would like to express our deepest sympathy to their families and survivors. to this day, not all of those killed have received justice. to this day, not even all the slain have found a final resting place. that's why we want to continue to fight so that the victims and their survivors get the justice they deserve. in 2007, the massacre was finally recognized as genocide by the international criminal court. this was an important milestone, especially since the massacre took place in an area declared a safe place by the united nations and became a symbol of an international community overwhelmed by the serious human rights violations. we have already taken a position on the srebrenica genocide twice as the european parliament: in 2005 and 2009. we remembered all the victims of war crimes in the former yugoslavia. today, 20 years later, we renew our commitment: we will not forget srebrenica. because there can be no reconciliation without remembrance. there can be reconciliation only if we recognize the suffering and pain that has been experienced, if we remember how toxic rhetoric and populist agitation pave the way for ethnic cleansing, if we remember how the multiethnic and multi-religious roots of the balkans have been denied - and that with the aim of redrawing borders. we will firmly oppose all those who wish to reawaken old demons and stir up trouble again. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, commemorative events are important to remind us that the forces of destruction are always alive. i have asked my colleague, vice-president lunacek, to represent the european parliament at the commemoration of 11 july in srebrenica next week. the european parliament is tirelessly committed to a european perspective for the western balkans, partly because a secure and stable neighbourhood is in our own interest. the door to europe is open to those who take the path of democracy and the rule of law, who also see reconciliation as a key to security and cooperation in the western balkans. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to rise from your seats in remembrance of the victims of srebrenica. (parliament adopted the resolution)
the minutes and the texts adopted at the meeting of 24 june were distributed. is there any objection? (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
i suggest we discuss this point later on thursday's agenda. i'll call you back.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. this week will be clearly defined by the discussions that will arise from the referendum in greece. i believe that greece and the european union as a whole have found themselves in a very difficult situation, which has led to this: one can read the debates in the european parliament in which such a development was warned of. we can also read what martin schulz - formerly as group president and later as president of parliament - said to try to prevent this. what's right now? what's right, what's wrong? in my view, the most important role of the european parliament, the house directly elected by the citizens of northern and southern, eastern and western europe, is now to help build bridges leading out of this situation in which the european union finds itself. i have to tell you, mr schulz - and it is not easy for me to say this, because i had high hopes for the fifth president of the european union - that i think my group is right, that the way in which you, as president of parliament, interfered in the debate on greece was wrong, was irresponsible - not because you supported the 'yes' but because you contributed to the wrong charge and the confrontation that is taking place in greece and other european countries. i would like to say at this point that i do not think you are qualified to play an active role for the european parliament in this acute process. i would ask you to refrain for once, because the damage you have done to the european parliament is greater than the benefit you can achieve now. (applause from the centre and the right)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you guessed right. it is not much to expect, since we - dimitrios papadimoulis as vice-president and i as chairman of the gue/ngl group - wrote you a letter last week protesting against your active influence and intervention in the referendum as president of the european parliament since the beginning of last week. we believe that the president of the european parliament, the only institution directly elected, cannot interfere in the democratic decision-making process in a member state. you did not do that when it was scotland, you did not do it during the referendums in the netherlands - well, you were not president then - or with others. i have never seen a president of this parliament announce that he will launch a campaign, announce that he will intervene, promote a 'yes' vote, and at the same time declare that a government is finished, and at the same time declare that this government must be replaced by a technical government, and at the same time declare that an elected president is a manipulator, a demagogue. i don't think that has anything to do with your responsibility here. they have come in during the last parliamentary term and this parliamentary term to give parliament a clear and unequivocal boost in its rights. but you have not had our support for believing that you are parliament. it's not you! you've been commissioned by us. we have not been asked what position you represent. and that's the point. i urge you to leave this alone in future. it's not the president's place. every people has the right to vote in a referendum on important issues affecting it. we, as the european parliament, as a democratically elected institution, have to defend democracy. it cannot be that in the european union the voters have become the weakest link. it must be possible to discuss alternative proposals and to vote on them. i urge you to adopt this very idea. i think you have gone astray, mr president, and you must find your way back. (applause from the centre)
i have a lot of messages in my head right now. this is a difficult situation because, according to the rules of procedure, i cannot cancel debates on this point. you have also been given considerably more time than you normally get for such a statement on the rules of procedure. you have to decide if you want to have a debate here now. i am a little surprised, because when it comes to the hungarian government, i am asked to represent parliament by all means. i have not, however, called for the resignation of any government. in that case...you must read the texts carefully before you shout around here. so, you need to think very carefully about this, ladies and gentlemen, whether you want to go through with it. i ask again if anyone else would like to speak.
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 2 july 2015 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. monday: no changes. tuesday:i would like to start by recommending the following. in view of the current situation and after consulting the other institutions, i propose the following amendments to the agenda: mr tusk has called for an extraordinary summit of the euro area tomorrow afternoon. the first item on the agenda for tuesday afternoon is therefore the commission's statement on the preparation of its work programme for 2016, replacing the european council conclusions of 25 and 26 june and the current situation in greece. instead, i propose that on wednesday morning, the second item on the agenda be the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council of 25-26 june 2015, the euro summit of 7 july 2015 and the current situation in greece. this item replaces the commission's statements on the preparation of its work programme, which we have moved forward to tuesday, if you agree. i have also been asked to change the voting time from 12 noon to 1 p.m. because of the abundance of speeches, so that more time is available.
mr verhofstadt, i would like to convey this wish to the two gentlemen concerned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact that you want to say this is a request from mr verhofstadt, and i think that parliament should support him. we have tried repeatedly in recent weeks to discuss and reach decisions before the summits and the crucial negotiations in the european parliament. we have repeatedly asked to negotiate with representatives of the greek government, but this has been refused. instead, you spoke for the european parliament. i think it's time that these debates were really direct.
mrs. harms, i don't know what you're talking about. i've been to mr.... if you're so kind... okay, if you're not even listening to my answers, then... mrs. harms, i was going to give you an answer, but i'm writing it now.
i have no other option but to convey to mr dijsselbloem and mr tsipras the wishes of this house. i will do so, i have been asked to do so, and i did not have the impression that all of you in this house had already expressed this wish. but i'm bringing him in. i'm going to ask if there are any more messages for tuesday. on tuesday mr glezos came to the agenda with a motion which he and 51 other members want to put forward: a declaration by the council and the commission on germany's war debts.
thank you very much, mr. glezos. the commission has received your request in due time and 51 other colleagues have signed it. the title of the request is: commission statement on germany's war debts. there's someone who can speak for the motion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would ask you to support this motion. we are dealing here with a question which has been on the minds of many people in greece for decades and which was not created by the two plus four treaties of 1991. we feel it is urgent that there should be a debate here in order to show respect for the greek people. it is a bilateral issue between greece and germany. but these issues also affect the climate in the european union. i am conscious of the fact that, as a german mep, i believe that there is an opportunity here to have a fair discussion about these open questions, in a way that is not about financial settlement, but about the recognition that there are still questions that have not been resolved and that we must sit down and talk about them.
one member spoke in favour of the motion and one against it. (parliament rejected the request) no more applications for wednesday. thursday:the alde group is asking for the schaake report on 'human rights and technology in third countries' to be postponed until september.
does anyone else want to talk about this motion? that's not the case. (parliament adopted the resolution) the alde group has already announced through mr jakovčić that it intends to put a debate on a resolution commemorating srebrenica on thursday as the first item on the agenda.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we are in favour of this proposal, even though the conference of presidents originally chose a different course for good reason. we believe that the suffering that has been inflicted on so many thousands of people should also be worth having a calm, objective and appropriate debate about. the people who died there were murdered, and the people who survived deserve it.
but there is no one who wants to speak against the proposal. (parliament adopted the resolution) the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions is tomorrow at 10 a.m. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the vote will then take place on thursday 9 july 2015. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer (o-000075/2015) to the commission on the subject: first reaction to the commission green paper on the creation of a capital markets union by roberto gualtieri and burkhard balz, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (2015/2634(rsp - b8-0564/2015).
a writer. the commission is not the capital markets union is an important project for this legislature. we support the capital markets union because it promises greater diversification in the sources of finance for the european economy, because it aims to improve access to capital for small and medium-sized enterprises and because it can strengthen the internal market for financial services for the benefit of consumers. this means that we support the objectives of a capital markets union. at the same time, we have clear requirements for implementation. the commission does not receive a blank cheque from us. we believe that the following is particularly important: we are calling for a holistic approach. the capital markets union is not a substitute for bank financing, its role is to complement and strengthen proven financing models. the capital markets union therefore needs to involve financial intermediaries such as banks and insurance companies. secondly, we are calling for a european approach. the capital markets union is not a banking union; it must apply equally to the whole european market. we do not want to copy the models of third countries, but to develop an approach that fits into our european financing culture. and we are calling for a full analysis. the capital markets union is intended to be effective where there are obstacles to capital market financing. these obstacles need to be analysed to see whether they exist in the individual member states or in the eu. the capital markets union must learn from past mistakes. what went wrong in the 2007/2008 financial crisis in capital market financing must not happen again. fourthly, we want to see real benefits for small and mediumsized enterprises. the capital markets union must not lose itself in a small set of rules, but must deliver what it promises: better access to finance and better regulation for smes. we are clear that a capital markets union can only improve the investment climate in europe if other basic conditions are met. this includes, in particular, a stable economic policy environment based on economic reforms and debt reduction.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the capital markets union is supposed to cure one of europe's ills: underinvestment and banks that do not lend. but if you want to cure a disease, you have to understand the causes of the disease before you can agree on a medicine. and the reason for the weak lending in the banking sector is precisely because we've had austerity in europe, that wages have fallen, that pensions have fallen, that government spending has fallen. in such an environment, there is no dynamic demand for credit. the reason why banks did not lend was precisely because they encouraged a shady securitization market. if the commission says 'we want to promote simple, safe and transparent products', it must first answer why there is no private market for these products. it is obvious that there is no such thing because the risks are too high for market participants. that is why we say that the capital markets union does not fit into the european landscape. because there are reasons why europe has always had a banking-centric economic system, because banks are more able to meet the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises as well. banks that know the investment risks, whereas in the us, they're larger economic units. that's why you shouldn't compare apples to oranges. we reject the capital markets union. it is the wrong remedy for europe's disease.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, first of all, i would like to say that our group supports the basic idea of a capital markets union. we know that there are problems and that those problems have not become any smaller with the financial crisis. our financial market has become more fragmented. therefore, i think that the commissioner has picked up on the right idea. at the same time, one has to be careful that we do not disappoint citizens by presenting expectations this project cannot meet. there is the danger that efforts like the capital markets union and developing open capital markets could be misunderstood to mean that it would largely replace the provision of credit to smes. for the reasons which have been mentioned, small businesses – also in the us – depend largely on banks and will continue to do so. it makes sense to complement their funding possibilities, and the commission proposal also makes sense. however, what we can achieve will be limited if we do not tackle the biggest problems in europe. the biggest problems for the opening of capital markets are clearly issues such as taxation, insolvency law or accounting rules. this will not change, and the commission is not proposing to change it. therefore, please do not promise too much. but i have one message for the commission. i think it is important to reconcile this project with european values. this means that long-term funding and green bonds should not be governed by specialised instruments, but capital markets above a certain size should show that they have moved away from co2 and are investing for the long term. therefore, there should be ratings attached to it which truly follow, and give transparency to, european values. that should be part of the mission.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to expressly welcome the commission's initiative for a capital markets union. i think this is an important project in this election period. but, commissioner, let us be honest, there is a little more to be done. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we urgently need to take stock of everything we have done so far in financial market regulation - you have announced this - and we must then look at where something is still missing or - to be honest - where we may have done too much so that banks can no longer fulfil their task of granting loans. i would like to say one thing: if i hear that the basle committee is currently considering the possibility of reversing what we have deliberately created as a parliament - namely the introduction of a correction factor for loans to smes - then it is the wrong signal to facilitate access to the capital market for small and mediumsized enterprises. thirdly, we must ensure that we create more coherence. we have done some legislation where we use the same terms in different legislative packages that no longer fit together. i am thinking here only of the disclosure requirements in various directives which we have yet to make coherent. and a matter which is very important to me and to you, commissioner, is of course how we deal with third countries. they were in the united states this spring and they were working on the subject. we, the committee on economic and monetary affairs, will be in the united states in a few days to make some progress here. we have recently had the opportunity to speak to the chief negotiator on this subject in connection with the free trade agreement. i think that a sensible third country regime, more geared to equivalence, is the right answer to strengthen our capital markets in europe here too.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i was very pleased to see that you have made a clear commitment to the circular economy today, mr timmermans, which was not quite apparent in the confusion of the election of the new commission. i am all the more pleased that you have both pointed out here today that in the end it is not just a waste directive, but that it is really about much more: a circular economy. i can only say to all my colleagues who think they can do something with one or another percentage point here: they are wrong. it's about more than that. the point is that - as mrs pietikäinen has already explained - we are one of the largest exporting continents. but we have - my country, for example - just a little bit of cement and a little bit of cheese, and then we're already running out of raw materials. we must therefore deal with this natural capital - i am a farmer myself and know exactly what i am talking about - much better and more carefully. we are obvious in this way, because up to now we are still storing 70% of our raw materials in landfills in europe. they're lost, so you can use technology as you please. so i'm glad that in the end, it's all about, from the quarry to the bicycle, what we used, how we handled it, how often we can recycle it -- certainly more often than with paper. we don't want to throw out the baby with the bathtub, but the important premise is that we recognize that we have to work on it. and i'm supposed to be interested in one or the other percentage as opposed to my colleague . i do not think we need to have any definite figures in this paper. but we have to bring people into this process of consciousness. if we succeed, commissioners, i congratulate you today. we will support you in your ambitious vision today, and we will accompany you through the process.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by sirpa pietikäinen provides exactly what europe needs at the moment: jobs, sustainable development and, at the end of the day, certainty as to the direction of the legislation. i must also repeat what my colleagues have just said: the two vice-presidents were here today. it seems that the commission has understood what is at stake, which may not have been the case at the beginning, but now it is really going full steam ahead so that we can have a package by the end of the year, as has been said. it is important that we establish fixed quotas first, voluntary measures. i have been a member of this house for ten years. i have seen so many voluntary measures, all of them have gone to hell in a handbasket, and none of them have helped. we need robust legislation, that's what matters, and that will also lead to the end of the day the effect we all want, namely a circular economy. we need a 360-degree approach to the site. if you're going to go around this package, take a piece of cake out here, take a piece of cake out here, it's not going to go around. then the circle won't work. we should really be concerned about that. the commission will then need more time to do this, until december, but then we will really need this package for sustainable development, for conserving resources, saving resources and really putting a stop to landfilling in the recycling sector. because a landfill ban is also climate protection at the end of the day, because i'm preventing methane. what's very important to me is the marine environment. we have to make sure that we are really serious about reducing the amount of waste going into the sea. and at the end of the day, this has been addressed before, food waste: it has to stop. it is a huge scandal that we in europe throw away so many tons of food. we need to do better here. the commission must also consider this, and every time it adopts legislation it must also carry out an impact assessment procedure to determine whether this leads to food waste or to a reduction in food waste.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i am pleased about this report by mr pietikäinen because it does indeed, by setting ambitious targets, provide a good benchmark for what the commission has promised by the end of the year. it not only sets out such targets in terms of waste prevention or recycling rates, but it also puts this in the context of broader perspectives for an ecological civilization, by saying, for example, that we need to make our economy sustainable by 2050, by saying, for example, that we need to reduce our resource consumption by 30% by 2030. but if it becomes concrete towards the end of the year, mr katainen, we will have to deal with your slogan of over-regulation again. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the question is, what is overregulation? i would caution against thinking that over-regulation is always present when some industry or some company is complaining. you know as well as i do that there are companies and industries that can and want to make this circular economy a business success, that are leading the way in technology and championing innovation, and others that are on the brakes and believe that a competitive solution is only possible if you are successful even if you refuse to accept the ecological transformation goals. we need to figure this out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have heard it, and it is obvious: the circular economy is one of the major issues facing the european union. the initiative report by sirpa pietikäinen is a good way of defining our parliament's viewpoint on this matter very clearly. i think - and we've heard this from almost all the speakers - that there is a very large majority here who are committed to an effective circular economy and resource efficiency. we must do this with ambition, but - and i want to add a drop of vinegar to the fine wine - we must also do it in a way that is realistic! the measures to be taken must not lead to over-standardisation or over-regulation. mr bütikofer, you asked what over-regulation is. for example, i think that over-regulation is when we talk about ambitious, binding targets in the public procurement law, which we amended only last year and where we have just introduced these green points as a way of ensuring that public procurement law can take account of what was not the case before on this scale. i also think we have to be careful about including environmental risk in ratings and equity requirements. the revision of the ecodesign directive should also be carefully reconsidered. that is why i am asking the commission to produce a comprehensive and good report. i agree with sirpa 100% on many points. but i also ask the commission to present what it proposes with moderation and with the possibility of its being implemented in the near future.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the throwaway society has been propagated for decades to encourage, accelerate consumption and to make entire industries flourish. the speed with which technological progress, through updates or new developments, discards products as obsolete has also increased immensely, and is playing into the hands of a throwaway society. on the other hand, in this highly sensitive arc of tension between progress, economic success and conservation of resources, there is a need for action. but how much intervention, how much regulation is needed? the paradigm shift is long overdue. the industry has recognized that today's customers demand and prefer sustainable products. in addition, the efficient use of all raw materials used by industry is an important factor in achieving its economic success. isn't that all motivation? the circular economy is undeniably a sensible approach to making more effective use of valuable resources. it is therefore all the more surprising when government bodies themselves act as the ultimate deterrent, for example by refusing to grant permits to industrial plants which would ensure the highest possible degree of separation of materials, which is a prerequisite for the effective recycling of expensive natural raw materials. how often do government or eu bodies, regulations and their excessive bureaucracy stand in the way of efficient use of raw materials and environmentally friendly recycling? ladies and gentlemen, don't we have to hold up the mirror ourselves? no, that's not what conservation looks like.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. it was right to evaluate the milk package and to critically question what was working and what needed to be improved. the implementation of this package varied widely across eu countries, and many failed to take advantage of the opportunities to form producer organisations and to pool milk producers. even during the quota system, a difference in milk payment prices of eight to ten cents was normal within the 28 member states. the milk price was never uniform, nor would the structure of the dairies and the different production ranges have allowed it. now that the milk quota has been abolished, the situation on the milk market is very difficult. there is great uncertainty among farmers, not least because the russian embargo was a political decision. we can't leave the farmers here in the rain. i personally found three things particularly important in this report: rapid data collection from the member states to be able to monitor the market in good time and take swift action; special protection for the less-favoured mountain areas - here the importance of the dairy sector for the countryside and the cultural landscape is very high - and thirdly, the super levy funds - last year 900 million euro - to be earmarked for the dairy sector. the current situation in the dairy sector clearly shows that an effective safety net is essential to preserve family farms. the possible market measures are not enough. in addition to private storage, a moderate increase in the intervention price may be necessary. in addition, the income-related direct payments of the first pillar will continue to be an important complement. i'm very concerned about the inequality in the supply chain. all member states are hereby called upon to support the possibility of bundling. i would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly and i would like to endorse his words. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i am of course in favour of all kinds of agreements between milk producers, between market partners and between dairies. they do that all the time in germany. we now have really excellent dairy structures which also guarantee prices to farmers.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would also like to thank mr nicholson. he has certainly done his best to bring these differing opinions together in this report. there are also some elements that are right and important. but i cannot speak for this report because the overall direction of this report is wrong. it continues to rely on an export strategy and it is too much dependent on international markets. the problems we have with this have been described by you yourself just now, mr nicholson. it is building on rationalization and industrialization. these are developments which i consider very dangerous. thousands more cow pens are simply not socially acceptable. there is no balance at all between animal and plant production in this report, and the animal welfare aspect is completely absent. we have to get the milk back to the grassland. we must take milk to regions where milk production is reasonable, and that is precisely what the report has not sufficiently covered. we are now back at the beginning of a crisis. in spain, 20 000 litres of milk have now been sprayed on the fields again. in france, the dairy farmers are mobilizing again. in spain, the aim is to bring the price down to 18 cents. this is a situation that is not sustainable. in germany, the german farmers' association is asking for liquidity aid again. so we're screaming for money from the state, even though we have other instruments. parliament was already ahead at that point. mr nicholson, you yourself said we should not produce milk we cannot sell. we must then rethink the issue of supply control, and that is why i would like to ask you to do so afterwards.
the commission has already done so. milk production is one of the main sources of income for many farmers in our european union. the current price trend is a cause for concern. my cooperative dairy is still paying out over 31 cents for june and over 49 cents for organic milk, but what is coming in the next few months is a matter of great concern to me. the trade will demand prices that will put the dairy farmers on the edge of their existence. commissioner, we need tougher measures here. we could not agree to that in the milk package. if the milk price is now at its lowest, then the trade is demanding price fixing for a whole year. if the contract is concluded at this lower level, but the market develops better, we are bound to supply to the trade at this low price for a year. i would suggest that price agreements should be concluded for a maximum of six months. that would mean that you'd be back in business in better times, and not have to deliver for a whole year at the lowest price. the report mentions - and i am very grateful for this - the particular situation of milk producers in the less-favoured areas, in the mountainous areas, on the islands and in the outermost regions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. commissioner, you also mentioned the situation after the boycott of russia. but the commission - you are not responsible for that, you were not in office then - has reacted much too late to help the farmers in the baltic states and finland who are affected. when such situations arise, quick action is needed, not waiting for the child to fall into the well. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk quota is not exceeded.
the commission has already done so. i was a little shocked because you are still not talking about a crisis but about price fluctuations in the market. what are the 650 000 dairy farmers to think if their prices fall by 30% ? what about price fluctuations? i think you're far from any reality. we are in a real crisis, and it has to do with the liberalization policies of recent years. you'd have to admit that. they do not have the courage, or they do not want, to think again about introducing market rules. what ends up in this policy is that we pay export refunds again the taxpayer finances the export. why are you afraid to discuss this, but to think again about actually regulating supply? i think that the strengthening of the dairy farmers vis-à-vis the dairies and vis-à-vis trade is really an instrument which has not yet succeeded. there are still far too few rights for dairy farmers, and we have a critical situation of all dairy farmers in the mountain regions. we must also consider emergency aid, and we cannot wait for that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we all knew where the journey was going before the milk quota was up. commissioner, you knew it, mr nicholson, you knew it. prices are falling. we are down by some 30 percent compared to last year, and the trend is continuing. we are not only dealing with uncertainty in agriculture, but with a crisis, and this must be clearly stated here. the solutions are lacking, mr nicholson, and so is the strategy. your report is really an expression of helplessness. they point to the horizon, and there is the promised land: overproduction, more exports, opening up new markets, more competition, more softness, and more growth and softness. this is your horizon, and you are pointing towards it without adequate regulatory mechanisms, without adequate intervention mechanisms for milk producers and without a real strategy. but you do so knowing that the crisis is costing farms in europe every day. this crisis will cost us, if we go back to exporting, farms in the southern countries too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you, commissioner. the end of the milk quota will further increase intensive livestock farming in this area. this will lead to a dramatic decline in small farms throughout the union. they don't stand a chance against automated mass farming. in short, without quotas there will be no market stabilisation and the crisis will continue. and how can it be that we can speak out for the abolition of the milk quota and thus for more production, when now the sparrows are whistling from the roofs: milk is a product that makes us sick. talk to nutritionists. milk is extremely harmful to the environment, and, by the way, milk production is an unacceptable form of animal cruelty. finally, have the courage to take an ethical approach: less milk from turbo cows, less milk-related diseases, less pollution of the environment and groundwater by manure and by the growing of feed in huge monocultures and more animal welfare!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the greeks have voted. the people themselves decide their policies, not the troika, not the chancellor or the president of this house, martin schulz. now the eurogroup is desperate and has three problems. first, it has a hammer but no nail, because greece does not want to be a nail. secondly, greece is insolvent, but there are no rules for that. thirdly, no country can be thrown out of the euro, the eu treaties do not allow that. the result is that the greeks can tell us that they will not implement the austerity programmes; they have just done so. secondly, they do not want to pay back their debts, they have started with the imf; this is called insolvency. thirdly, they want to keep the euro, which is a huge disaster for all the euro-savers. your concept has failed. what is the lesson? i'm not doing anything! because the afd and other euro-realists in europe have long predicted it. and the majority of this house? they will continue to persist in their errors, to the detriment of the peoples of europe. shame on you!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. what's the best way to get from weimar to lisbon? even with the internet, no easy question to answer these days. the needs of travelers vary greatly. some want to get to their destination as quickly as possible, others want to travel in the most sustainable way possible, and still others are interested in finding a tourist route worth seeing. existing online travel planning services tend to offer a very limited range of travel options, covering only a few modes of transport and often only travel within a member state. unfortunately, this is why citizens are increasingly turning to their own cars as an alternative to travel. our aim should be to promote multimodal travel and to achieve seamless door-to-door transportation with a single ticket, not just within a region, but across borders. in my report we make concrete demands to overcome the existing obstacles and difficulties in the way of eu-wide multimodal travel information, planning and ticketing services. travellers must be given a wealth of information to enable them to make a real choice between the different connections. fair and equal access to real-time travel information is an important first step. particular attention should be paid to the special needs of persons with reduced mobility and the elderly. local and regional authorities need to be aware of their important role in the first part of a journey - the journey from the doorstep to the destination. without a network of local and long-distance transport, nothing works here. and national timetable information systems need to be networked across borders. clear and transparent passenger rights for multimodal travel should also be defined. they don't even exist today. this legal uncertainty still makes travelling by different modes of transport unattractive. we therefore need to make multimodal travel much more attractive, as it not only offers an efficient solution to existing congestion, but also promotes sustainability, economy, energy efficiency and european tourism. we therefore expect the commission to provide a framework for this, at least for the first step, which is access to travel information. the commission should leave it to the sector itself to find solutions for ticketing services. however, if no significant progress is seen by 2020, it will have to act by law. both before and during the journey, travellers should be given access to real-time information on possible disruptions, as well as on alternative travel options. of course, a high level of data protection must be ensured in all processes. in conclusion, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs very warmly. they allowed for broad support across the political groups for the proposals in the transport committee. we can now take these proposals to industry and the european commission. i now look forward to the support of the house and i thank all my colleagues in advance, as well as my assistant, mrs cezara petruc. thank you very much.
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission would like to thank mr koch and the members of the committee on transport and tourism for the really excellent work on this report, particularly as it highlights just how important multimodal travel information and services are for all of our citizens across the european union. we also fully share the report’s emphasis on the end user and expected societal benefits. this is very much in line with the spirit and objective of the digital single market agenda promoted by the commission. we need all the information we can get to deliver on key european transport policy goals, for instance in terms of reducing the environmental impact and increasing safety and security as well as enhancing the competitiveness of the european transport sector for the benefit of jobs and growth. achieving all these goals has to be made compatible with the evolving mobility needs of society, notably urban mobility. the expected social benefits of more comprehensive multimodal travel information services are manifold and include better modal integration and more flexibility in case of disruptions. ultimately, this information service contributes to efficiency gains in overall transport system management and in transport operations for both passengers and freight. for these services, the quality of the underlying data layer is a key aspect because it allows the provision of accurate and complete information to the end user. with the objective of setting a framework facilitating market—driven developments, notably in the field of ticketing, the commission has already taken a number of these initiatives. the market shaped by people for people should offer travellers complete and reliable information on various travel options which is displayed in a neutral way, not biased by any communication or commercial interest or restricted according to the traveller’s geographical location. particular attention should be given to symptoms of unfairness and disloyal competition. in the case of data related to road traffic and road infrastructure, mechanisms for sharing that data amongst public and private shareholders are being implemented in the member states. however, the same cannot be said for travel information, as has already been pointed out. accessible and available good—quality multimodal travel data that this interoperable and high quality is lacking so far. timetables across the modes, as identified by parliament, are one of the key data elements. in this context, the implementation of the its directive provides the opportunity for the commission to promote fair and equal access to data, an aim which also underpins different existing initiatives. by definition this is a cornerstone for creating a sound framework for better services and an essential element for a level playing field among service providers. the commission welcomes action by the member states targeted at improving the interoperability of ticketing systems, including across borders, as well as public sector initiatives enabling stakeholders to share market opportunities and improve service management, like the smart ticketing alliance for public transport and the full service model in the rail sector. let me stress that the commission fully agrees with parliament’s assessment that the provision of information should be tailored to the needs of all travellers, including persons with reduced mobility. another important point concerns transparent market conditions and fair and non-discriminatory access to the market, as well as a clear definition of the rights of the end users: consumer protection, data protection and privacy. this would greatly benefit the provision of more and better services. finally, on passengers’ rights in the multimodal context, let me inform you that the commission is currently addressing this issue, preparing an impact assessment of the various options to ensure that all passengers can fully and equally benefit from their rights.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the state of play of the latvian presidency. i would like to point out that there is no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards on this point.
the president-in-office of the council. mr president of the european parliament! mr president of the european commission! ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! commissioners, please! first of all, i would like to thank president schulz for his good cooperation. i have the great honour, after six months of very intensive work, of returning to the european parliament to discuss the achievements of the latvian presidency. the period under review has been a very challenging and dynamic time for europe, as well as a time of great responsibility and unique experience for latvia. latvia has identified three priorities competitive europe, digital europe and engaged europe. life hates its own corrections. the terrorist attacks and the humanitarian crisis at europe's borders have called for immediate action by the european union. but now all the thoughts are on greece. although latvia had to lead the work of the council of the european union in a context of shock and uncertainty, i can be proud of my country, which has successfully completed its first presidency after 10 years of membership of the european union. we have succeeded in implementing our strategic priorities. i would like to stress that the activities of our presidency are characterised by the involvement of civil society and social dialogue. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! during the preparatory phase and the presidency, we have had an intensive dialogue with the european parliament. it has made an invaluable contribution to the success of the latvian presidency. i am convinced that only by the institutions working together and working together can we in the european union achieve results, achieve success and foster citizens' trust. on behalf of the latvian presidency, i would like to thank the european parliament for the excellent cooperation during the presidency. good and constructive cooperation has enabled us to move forward with pragmatism and efficiency on the priorities and daily work, and to react quickly to new challenges and crises. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! we have worked hard with the european commission and the european parliament to bring legislation into being. we have made good progress in many areas, reached important agreements and achieved concrete results. today, as i look back, i want to highlight the most important achievements of my presidency. achievements that ensure that every european benefits. first, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is a we managed to reach an agreement on the european fund for strategic investments in record time. the fund will start its work this summer to promote investment in the european economy. i would like to thank the european parliament and the european commission for their intensive work on this issue of such great importance to europe. secondly, the energy union we have laid the foundations for the european energy union, which aims to strengthen the eu's energy independence and a common energy policy for the european union. in our work, we have focused on the need to provide consumers with stable and affordable energy prices, greater choice in the energy market and clearer information on energy suppliers. the latvian presidency made important decisions in the creation of the european energy union, promoting the transition to a low-carbon economy and thus increasing the eu's energy independence. the latvian presidency agreed to the submission of eu commitments to mitigate climate change beyond 2020, ensuring timely eu input in the preparation of the paris climate conference. third, the digital single market we agreed that we must go hand in hand with the development of digital technologies in order to adapt our societies to the digital age. we have therefore agreed on actions to promote the increasing use of digital solutions in business. these will be aspects of digital data access and security, as well as the provision of digital skills. the latvian presidency paid particular attention to the exploitation of the potential of the european digital economy. further developing the digital single market is crucial to fostering the competitiveness, growth and employment of the european union. the latvian presidency has made every effort to ensure that the legislation that is both essential and sensitive to the creation of the digital single market is given the necessary impetus. i am pleased that the council adopted the general approach to the proposal for a data protection regulation, which opened the negotiations with the european parliament on 24 june. data protection is an essential precondition for the successful development of the digital single market and for the protection of the fundamental rights of citizens. in the last days of the presidency, we reached agreement on the proposal for a single market for telecommunications, which will eliminate roaming surcharges and provide open access to the internet. this important achievement of our presidency will benefit every citizen, as the agreement provides for a significant reduction in roaming charges as from 30 april next year. the european parliament also agreed on the general principles for the network and information security directive. i hope that, once the proposal has been technically finalised, we will have a framework in place very soon to provide better protection against cyberattacks. fourthly, migration in recent months, migration has become one of the european union's most pressing issues. in implementing the guidelines endorsed by the european council, the council has made progress in preventing casualties in the mediterranean, combating criminal networks of human smugglers, strengthening cooperation with countries of origin and transit, and assisting the member states of the european union that are most affected by migration pressures. migration is a very complex issue. a sustainable solution is only possible within a targeted, comprehensive and balanced approach, systematically implemented step by step. it is essential to ensure that the proposed solution is supported by all member states of the european union. we need to strike a balance between solidarity and responsibility, which are essential components of the european union's migration policy. provide protection to those who need it. but protective measures alone will not be enough. they must go hand in hand with an effective system for the return of irregular migrants. fifth, securitythe challenges in the field of security have led us to re-evaluate our understanding of both the internal and external security of the european union. during the latvian presidency, the council has done a lot to strengthen the internal security of the european union. in june, the european union's ministers of the interior approved a renewed strategy for the internal security of the european union. the priorities for the next five years are therefore to combat terrorism and radicalisation, organised crime and cybercrime, and to address the new security challenges we face, including hybrid threats. the events of the past week have once again highlighted the threat of terrorism facing the european union. i would like to remind you that we have kept our promise in the council to agree on a data protection pact. we hope to reach an agreement on the european union passenger name record by the end of this year. i highly appreciated the review of the european union security strategy initiated by the high representative, vice-president of the commission. the sixth is the eastern partnership. we are pleased that the riga summit confirmed the european union's stable relations with the eastern partnership countries. at the same time, in view of the development of a differentiated approach, maintaining the unity of the eastern partnership will be an important task in the further development of the eastern partnership. the latvian presidency, together with the european parliament, managed to reach an agreement on macro-financial assistance to ukraine. we are pleased that the eu has maintained its unity on russia, reiterating the importance of fulfilling its commitments under the minsk agreements. i would also like to note that during our presidency, central asia has returned to the active agenda of the european union. the european union should not underestimate the importance of this region. seventh, the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is also essential to foster external trade and investment in order to promote economic growth. i therefore believe that it is very important that the negotiations between the european union and the united states on a comprehensive and mutually beneficial transatlantic trade and investment partnership agreement, which you will be discussing very shortly, are concluded in good time. we look to the european parliament for support at the conclusion stage, because the transatlantic partnership is not only economic but also geopolitical. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! we have also worked very hard with the european parliament on other legislative initiatives that are important for european competitiveness, growth and employment. we are pleased that we have focused on promoting employment on issues that have received less attention due to the economic and financial crisis, namely the sustainability and quality of jobs, income adequacy, career opportunities, safe transition from one job to another. i would like to mention in particular the promotion of youth employment. we have reached an agreement to speed up the allocation of european union funding to the youth employment initiative. this year alone, the initiative will have €1 billion available to support up to 650 000 young people each year. i would like to mention the new rules that will promote the interoperability and safety of european railways, benefiting both passengers and the industry. the agreement on the reform of the trade mark system will also promote and protect innovation. the new rules on complex journeys will provide better protection of consumer rights and clearer conditions for tour operators. agreements have also been reached in agriculture, health, and other areas. i was pleased to see that on 25 june the european parliament, the european commission and the council began negotiations on a new institutional agreement. this is a unique opportunity for the european union institutions to improve their decision-making process. european citizens expect an efficient and well-functioning european union, and it is our common duty to deliver it. ladies and gentlemen of the house of commons! the latvian presidency has worked purposefully and effectively to build a competitive, digital, inclusive and secure europe. we worked with you, martin, and the members of the european parliament. we worked closely with the commission and jean-claude. i hope that our pragmatism has helped to lay a solid foundation for the successful conduct of the issues during the next presidency. with a sense of accomplishment, latvia has handed the presidency of the council to luxembourg. i wish them luck and success. we live in an increasingly dynamic and interconnected world. it will continue to present new opportunities and new challenges. the european union will therefore only succeed if all the european institutions are determined and work together. thank you again for your attention and thank you for your cooperation!
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, madam prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to pay tribute to the work of the latvian presidency. it was - as you said, madam prime minister - the first presidency of latvia. for a first presidency, what an experience and what a performance! thank you in the name of europe! (applause) i would like to thank those who do not like europe are incapable of complimenting those who do! i think you've done an exemplary job and i want to congratulate you. i would like to thank you in particular for having been able to take up a number of proposals that the commission had put forward just before the start of the presidency, or during your presidency, particularly with regard to the investment plan. what a fine job the presidency, and therefore the council, and the european parliament have done in bringing this ambitious project to fruition in a few months. in paying tribute to you, i also pay tribute to parliament, which was able to respond in the appropriate time. the commission, under an ambitious presidency, did not hesitate to put forward a series of proposals - you have just mentioned a few of them - namely the energy union, the capital markets union and the digital union. all this was possible because the commission felt itself inspired by the ambitions of the presidency. i would also like to commend you on your negotiating skills. it is true that since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the role of the prime ministers and foreign ministers has changed somewhat. there is a permanent presidency of the council, so the prime minister does not have to chair the european councils, the high representative, who chairs the council of foreign relations, and a permanent presidency of the eurogroup, so the finance ministers are somewhat relieved of their work. i would have liked to have lived my last presidency as prime minister of luxembourg under these conditions. i have chaired the european council, ecofin and the eurogroup, and i know the constraints, the honours and the misfortunes of a presidency. you have done it with elegance and i would like to pay tribute to your many talents as a negotiator and to the exemplary and elegant work done by your permanent representative. we are geniuses, we are prime ministers, presidents, but without those who do the real work, we are nothing, and so we must also pay tribute to the top... (applause) i would like to pay tribute here to the latvian civil service. it's a great one. this evening we shall have another european council on greece. i would like to say a few words. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i warn you against the art of vorfreude. i did not vote in the greek referendum on sunday evening or yesterday. it must sometimes also be allowed to behave in the same way to others, and to think in the same way, before one takes the word. i'm not scared. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak. yesterday is the place of democracy! (beifall) the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. either we respect the european parliament, or we give speedy interviews. i am here yesterday in parliament, because yesterday i had the responsibility to carry, and yesterday i had the report to replace. (beifall) i would like to say: i do not want to start with that, but i will start with the fact that the role of the european commission in relation to greece is the most heavily criticised in some member states, especially in those which speak the same language as the one i am currently using. either the parliament wants to have a political commission, and then this must also be allowed to express itself politically, or the parliament and others want to have a commission composed of high officials. i am not a high-ranking official, i am a politician with responsibility. (beifall) i would still find it astonishing that anyone, except the president of the commission, should be allowed to speak about greece and the future of the eurozone. i'm not letting the world get in the way of my work. i was elected yesterday. the same applies, i would add, to the european parliament and its president. the president of the european parliament regularly takes part in the meetings of the european council and takes note of the opinions and assessments of the european parliament, doing so in a manner which is very pleasant, if not always pleasant for everyone. the idea that the president of the european parliament comes to the council, speaks, speaks and keeps his mouth shut until he is again allowed to speak is a mind-boggling idea. the european parliament is not a paper figure and has also become one of the european councils on which europe is to speak. i am grateful to the president of the european parliament for speaking very often on behalf of the european parliament, even though not always covered by his mandate, and for not always forcing, urging, demanding or explaining the debate involved. the european parliament is not a paper office, and the president of the european parliament is not a bed-maker. what you did was what you did. (beifall) now we have another european rat in sachen griechenland this evening. now everyone says: we must respect the vote of the greeks. that kills me too. but i would also like to understand the vote of the greek electorate. the greek people have been asked a question which does not arise because they are voting on a text proposal. i could now ask you, in detail, which question was actually put. but so far i want the fun yesterday not to be. (shouting in distance) i know, i know. i'm getting out of here. that now the mutts have cooled off, and then we can continue the debate.
ladies and gentlemen, i'm sure you can make some calls. but you cannot speak on your own. we have no objection to your interjections. above all, mr coburn, we've missed you for the past few weeks. mr juncker, you can go on.
president of the commission. i don't like to be interrupted. but sometimes i like to be interrupted by people who interrupt me all the time. i like that a lot. i was going to say that we need to have a serious discussion about what it means to respect the vote of the greek people. that's why the question is important, what did the greeks say no to? the greek people have voted in a majority against a text proposed by the three institutions which was already obsolete when it was put to the vote. i have been in intensive negotiations with the greek government and the greek prime minister until thursday last week, and the greek prime minister knows very well that what was put to the vote of the greek people was not the state of affairs. i shall therefore ask the greek prime minister tonight - i have already done so tonight - to explain the greek vote to me. the question on which the vote was taken is long gone, and everyone who is in charge of the negotiating process knows that. but it is not so important now that we should be arguing for the right. we need to put our little ego and my big ego in parentheses and deal with the situation we find ourselves in. the situation is that i still think and i will think this until the end of the day: my petition is, my will is to prevent a grexit. i am against a grexit! (applause from the centre) there are some in the european union who are openly or covertly advocating for greece's exit from the eurozone. i have a life experience. life experience has taught me that the easy answers are often the wrong answers. i'm against simple answers. in europe, there are no easy answers. europe is the constant struggle for compromise solutions, and that is the task which the european commission has set itself. we shall continue to do so. i would like greece, this great greek nation, not to have the impression that we want to throw them and the greeks out of the european monetary union or the european union. no one should want to throw out the greeks! (applause from the centre) the european commission will therefore endeavour to restart negotiations with greece. what kind of european union would that be if we suddenly stopped talking to each other? if the european nations stop talking to each other, we are heading towards the end of the european union. i think it's time for us to get together with our minds and our hearts, because without feelings, we can't get back together. i was very sorry to see the greek delegation leave the negotiating table. you don't do that in europe! in europe, you negotiate until the last millisecond. the greek government did not do that, and that was a grave mistake. (applause from the centre) the fact that we are now meeting again at the same table is a european matter of course and we must try to find a solution. that solution will not be possible today. and if there were a solution today, it would again be too simple. but today we will pave the way for the settlement of the situation through mutual dialogue and understanding and also through mutual tolerance. this also means that the rhetorical build-up must be brought to a swift, abrupt end. i do not accept - and i say this in the place of european democracy - that the representatives of the institutions - and i do not accept this at all for the commission and its president - are called terrorists by the greek government. this is not a european attitude! (applause from the centre) all have made a good effort, the commission more than others. if everyone had done as much as the commission and its president, we would not be in the situation we are in today. so we will meet again tonight and try to negotiate without rhetorical noise to get things moving in such a way that we can reach a mutually agreed solution. the european commission, with all due respect to what the greeks have said, would like to know what this vote means. it is not a no to europe, i am told. it is not a no to the euro, i am told. there can be no 'no' to the proposals of the institutions, because they were no longer on the table. so i'd like a statement of vote from the greek prime minister. the ball is clearly in the court of the greek government. the greek government must explain today in brussels how it intends to proceed in this situation. the european commission, for its part, and its president, are in any case prepared to do everything possible to ensure that we reach an agreement within a reasonable time. the greeks and the europeans can rely on the european commission! (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to begin by thanking the presidency for the work it has done. the european union is also committed to the development of the european telecommunications industry, and the european union is committed to the development of the telecommunications industry. i would like to congratulate you on this and personally thank prime minister straujuma for the clear direction she has taken, for her firm hand, but also for her humanity. the first three rows also show what a modern government we have in latvia: there are only women in the first three rows. congratulations on this modern presidency! yes, mrs harms, we have 50% women in the epp group in the bureau. so in that respect, congratulations, that's a great balance sheet. we must apologize for talking a lot about greece today. but you will understand this, and we can build a bridge, namely the bridge that latvia has also had difficult times: a few years ago a decline in gdp of 14%. latvia had the courage to change, to take the initiative, including cuts in the state budget, massive cuts in the state budget. today, latvia is contributing to european growth with 2% growth. they're back. so the first thing i want to say is: we can call it austerity or whatever you want to call it. but if europe is not willing to make internal reforms, if we are not able to put our national budgets in order, then this continent will not have a good future, and latvia is a good example of how to do it right. secondly, i would like to take up the democratic debate that we are having. what did we learn on sunday? 61% of greeks oppose further cuts. is that so surprising? what happens if we vote in finland? what if the people in finland say: we are no longer prepared to spend our tax money to rescue greece or other countries in europe? is it a bad democracy because they're evil and don't want to provide money? what have we learned? we learned that there are national perspectives. yes, but that's not going to get us anywhere in europe. europe is the idea of sitting down and finding compromises. that's the idea: not provoked, not confrontational, but seeking compromises with each other. that is why sunday was not a good day for europe. a day when europe too has suffered. the applause we heard in the press releases from the right and the left was a powerful demonstration of this: once again the extremists were united in a great unity because they were against europe. ladies and gentlemen, there was a discussion in the chamber that this was an unfair deal. i would like to thank our president for having worked out a fair deal in the many hours he spent negotiating with tsipras and with the greek representatives. there were no more pension cuts in it. there was a proposal in the chamber to cut back on the military. it was an offer of a $35 billion investment package in the greek economy, in the future of greece, for growth. the greek government has dismissed this matter lightly. that's why i said it was a fair deal on the table. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we have no imagination at the moment as to how we should go beyond these proposals which were already on the table. we do not have the imagination to put forward any more far-reaching proposals now. the game of syriza is high risk. we have found greece in a difficult situation. greece had made many cuts, had an economic downturn, that was certainly a great burden on the country, but in the last five months, unfortunately, the division of god has continued. the pharmaceutical supply is at a standstill, the banks are closed, greece is in a very difficult situation. syriza and tsipras are also responsible for this. ladies and gentlemen, if we look at greece today, it is a divided country. this is the balance sheet of a government policy of tsipras and syriza not a good balance sheet for greece. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. both aspects are important. the values are democracy and solidarity, and i believe that europe is the benchmark in the world. on the other hand, europe also means respecting rules and law. to respect agreements, to respect contracts concluded: this is europe, too. we hope that in the next few years we will be able to return to this principle that rules must also apply.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in fact, i am very much looking forward to seeing how mr tsipras will represent greece this evening. but i think that's a big challenge to represent the no and the yes. because his first job is to bring his country back together. only a united greece will have the opportunity to negotiate successfully in brussels. i share many of the calls made to mr tsipras in the last few days. but i must also say today that there are appeals to angela merkel in germany which i do not share at all. that is why i very much welcome the tone of jean-claude juncker's speech. if the bild newspaper today demands that what we need is the iron chancellor, then all i can say is please don't! i would like the germans to remember that if we were to meet our neighbours in europe - again and again - we would not be this european nation, this germany, which has a very special responsibility. mr juncker, i think that both issues are clear. it is the reforms on the one hand, which are also mentioned in the imf paper. the imf paper is not just about the unsustainable debt situation. the imf paper clearly calls for social reforms in greece. on the other hand, the debt of greece must be made sustainable. madam president, i was so enthusiastic about your country because it is a country still in the process of being built, with great problems, but with an incredible amount of european spirit. i sometimes wish that these young latvians, young balts and young greeks would agree on what european democracy is, instead of drifting apart. i believe that it is the small countries and the new countries that must play a bridge role in this whole debate. i thank you for your presidency of the council and wish your country and europe every success.
i'm not going to lie. you have to put your shield on the right side, or it's ixo. (cheers and applause) (interruption of the debate) mrs straujuma, before i give you the floor again, i would like to say on behalf of the - i believe - overwhelming majority of this house that we thank you for the tremendous effort you have made, including personally, during your presidency. i say this on behalf of our institution because it is certainly a very big challenge for small countries to hold the presidency of the union. i want to tell you, the way you've led them has been exemplary. thank you for that. (applause from the centre)
the president. - the debate is closed. ladies and gentlemen, mr glezos asked me to give him the floor because today is his last plenary session. i think we should therefore give mr glezos the floor for a personal statement. there you go.
written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing.– members of the european parliament and united states congress held their 76th inter-parliamentary meeting of the transatlantic legislators’ dialogue in riga on 27 and 28 june. we discussed ways to deepen and strengthen our relationship, and in particular to increase readiness to jointly address the diverse set of global security, economic and environmental challenges that the nations currently face. we exchanged views in three working sessions: 1. achieving growth and jobs through trade. it was highlighted that ttip should be an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive agreement. ambitious approaches on public market access for defined services, mutual recognition of professional qualifications and mobility for professionals and individuals between the nations were discussed. furthermore, the importance of energy issues was upheld in the negotiations. 2. cooperating for energy security. major global challenges to energy security were discussed. the tremendous potential of the united states in this case was highlighted, whilst european energy security was regarded as a solid framework for cooperation amongst member states. 3. reinforcing security and defence cooperation. it was reaffirmed that the key is a strategic partnership. intensifying our cooperation on foreign and security policy in recent times was appreciated.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) (2014/2228(ini) (a8-0175/2015).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply. if you look around the global economy, you have to realize that we are unique in a globalization process, and that our companies, our workers, are entangled in global value chains. it is our democratic duty here in the european parliament to shape this process: to set standards and rules, to ensure that the interests of workers and citizens are respected. this is different from the traditional trade agreements of the past, which were all about tariffs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a central demand of the resolution: to ensure the greatest possible transparency and to involve civil society in the context of the discussions. because it's not about customs, it's about sensitive important things. that is why we are making a resolution, because i do think that this is the time for parliaments, not just for negotiators, but for us to decide what are the principles for setting standards and for making rules. the resolution makes this very clear. we want to make it clear that it is the principles of data protection that must be safeguarded in trade agreements, that our values of data protection must be safeguarded in trade agreements and in the actions of companies. we want to make it clear that our tradition of providing services in the general economic interest has nothing to do with commercial contracts. it is our regional responsibility, how to organise water supply. we want to make it clear that the question of services can only be included in a trade agreement if it is described positively, that is, if it is included in positive lists. we want to make it clear that the right to legislate, the right to regulate cannot be challenged by any regulatory committees or anything else or by private arbitration. so a clear set of rules for a trade agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why you will find a strong chapter in the resolution on safeguarding workers' rights. i am not sure that we will achieve that in the end. it can fail, and we must always be aware of that. we'll decide on a deal by the end of the day. but if you don't fight, if you don't start, you've already lost. if you fight, you can lose. but if you do nothing, you've already lost. so let's fight for a good deal.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: thank you very much, mr president. as requested in my opinion on ttip in the development committee, i would like to highlight three important aspects. the first is workers' rights and good work, which is embedded in the eight core ilo labour standards. its enforcement and ratification in the ttip and other trade agreements is the key to good work worldwide. the second aspect is the principle of policy coherence in the interests of development. it must also be anchored in ttip, because trade and development cannot be separated. the third aspect is the announcement by commissioner malmström that she will present an analysis of the impact of ttip on developing countries and on the future sustainable development goals. the aim is to produce an independent report that makes complex relationships understandable. there is still far too little information on this. the commission must deliver here, as was requested by a large majority in the non-partisan opinion. i also thank mr bernd lange and his team for the intensive work on this resolution. thank you very much.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to stress for the committee on culture that culture and the media are special assets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that is why we have called for the member states to continue to have the right to regulate and promote audiovisual media, in a future-proof way, that is to say, technology-neutral, including in the digital world. the committee on culture insists that a legally binding clause be drawn up to ensure that these services are not attacked by ttip. we want to make sure that the price-fixing applies to books, but also to the free press, and that it is not affected by ttip. it is also very important that education should not be affected, that member states should continue to have the possibility of supporting educational establishments and also regulating objectives in this area. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. all these points must be clearly regulated in ttip so that there is no misunderstanding.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the report addresses the concerns of many citizens in europe. there is a clear commitment, for example, to the iao nuclear work standards. this is above all due to the s&d. the key weakness in this report, however, remains the treatment of arbitration. we don't need parallel justice to protect corporate investments. arbitration breaks the rule of law principle of any democracy: a right that applies equally to all. we must continue to do so. otherwise, the profit interests of a few large companies are protected by international law. the original amendment no 27 takes up the position of the legal affairs committee, which is therefore opposed to any form of arbitration. and we should all support amendment no 27 or others of similar content in the interests of the european rule of law and social democracy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. what can be said today that has not been repeated endlessly in the past weeks and months? we are going around in circles instead of supporting our negotiators. first, a lot has happened in the last few months. there was considerable progress in the transparency of the negotiations and a marked increase in the commission's willingness to engage in intensive dialogue with all stakeholders. a broad public debate has been launched, and it is more important than ever to communicate facts. in this context, for example, the joint declaration you have mentioned, mrs malmström, and your commitment to the protection of public services was particularly welcome. we have a firm commitment that our standards will not be lowered in any area. the european parliament should therefore send a strong signal of support. so what exactly are we discussing in the public debate? there are few consolidated texts that provide reliable results. the debate is very much based on the assumptions, uncertainties and fears of a number of citizens. much of it is future music; we need to work out concrete things. we therefore see this resolution not only as a message to the negotiators but also as a positive signal to our citizens. the ttip is an opportunity for europe. maybe not so much for my generation, but certainly for the generation of our children and our grandchildren. we can't let this opportunity go to waste. if it is not possible to reach an agreement with a partner of the same kind as the united states, then we can stop with trade policy. how are we ever going to get along with partners that are so different? we have fought hard in the negotiations on this text of the resolution. on the whole, i think we have reached a good compromise. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one last word on investment protection. we need a robust chapter on investment, because it is a stimulus for growth and jobs. and only effective use of it, only effective protection of investments, will give investors the much-needed legal certainty. i would like to thank in particular the members of my epp group. we worked very well together. thank you for your support.
ladies and gentlemen, i must draw your attention to the following: we have about 60 speakers on the list for this debate. if we now take a blue card after or during practically every speech, we will certainly not be able to deal with the list of speakers. that will mean that in the end, the ladies and gentlemen who have registered here on the list of speakers will not have a word. i don't think that's appropriate in this debate. so please do not be angry with me if i do not allow any blue cards, because the number of speakers shows the whole spectrum of the debate. (interruption of the debate) i'm the one who decides that, and i've decided that now. i'll run the list of speakers like this.
mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i don't have the power to cancel debates. that was decided by a majority in the plenary. in that respect, that statement was wrong. secondly, we have already moved the voting time to 1 p.m. this debate has already been extended by one hour. normally the vote should take place at 12 noon. we have moved it to 1 p.m. so that as many speakers as possible can have a say. that is why i ask you to refrain from giving blue cards. we have 60 speakers. you do not want your colleagues to be removed from the list of speakers at the end.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. proponents of ttip like to argue that the agreement is necessary because the world economy has changed. it's true, she's changed, and she's changing. but from all geopolitical and geo-economic angles, ttip is the wrong answer. it is not only naive, but wrong to set standards against the rest of the world. we don't need a confrontational alliance against china, india, russia. we must, rather, shape our world together with these partners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but ttip is not just a confrontation on the outside, it is also a confrontation on the inside. the citizens feel that your plans for regulatory cooperation are an attack. what you call barriers to trade are really democratic achievements. corporations may not like it, but our societies care about legal rules and standards. that is why we reject isds in principle. that is why i am voting in favour of amendment no 27. that is why we are fighting for good work, for healthy food, for the preservation of rural areas, for municipal services, for binding sustainability chapters and against ttip. my group is putting forward important arguments in the form of amendments from opinions of committees of this parliament to the plenary for a decision. we are not going to vote for the report. much of this work must be reflected in the resolution as a benchmark for future evaluation of the negotiations. commissioner, take advantage of the summer to rethink your trading strategy. the negotiating approaches to ttip, ceta and tisa are no longer compatible with the current and future objectives of promoting regional trade, combating exploitation in global production chains and combating environmental dumping. to do this, start a democratic process with the eu's citizens, with its organisations and parliaments, with our partner countries in a common future. and we can use the millions of voices of citizens in the eu and the us to do so!
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. globalization is happening. we, the european people's party, do not want to just let it happen, we want to shape it. we are therefore in favour of binding trade agreements under international law. we have had almost nothing but good experiences with our several dozen existing agreements. that is why we support the ttip negotiations. we therefore call on those opponents who are unsettling people and carrying out questionable campaigns to stop this and to engage in a debate based on facts instead of spreading half-truths and lies. we want better market access for our companies in america. but we do not want to see the arbitrary abolition of rules, standards and guidelines. we want the abolition of customs duties wherever possible and appropriate, not the endangerment of industrial and agricultural jobs. we want better market access for our service providers, for film producers, for architects and media workers in the us, but we do not want to jeopardise art, culture, cultural promotion, public service broadcasting, education or book pricing in europe. we want better access to the public procurement market, but we do not want anyone to have to endure any restrictions on public services. we want to protect american businesses and investors and give them meaningful legal recourse in the event of a dispute. we don't want taxpayers to be asked to come to the register at random. we want better cooperation between governments, administrations and standard-setting bodies on both sides of the atlantic, but no restrictions on us as democratically elected and legitimate legislators. we want better opportunities for our farmers, vine growers and food producers, not lower food safety standards. that is what ttip is all about for us. but, dear colleague harms and dear colleague jadot, this has happened several times now: someone from your group speaks, right-wing and left-wing populists applaud, and many of your own group colleagues do not applaud and look down in shame. i suggest you reconsider what you're doing here and who you're doing business with.
i have to say, madam president, finally we have the debate on ttip, finally we have the vote on ttip. we could have done that last month, because the arguments have been on the table for a while. the president, who is sadly no longer here, wanted to have time to put together two positions which simply do not fit together. because it's not really that difficult: either you are for the possibility for investors to sue states, or you are against it. that is the question of isds. and all the colleagues have been able to form an opinion on this over the last few months, or even the last few years. but instead, the president has proposed a formulaic compromise that is actually more satire than politics. instead of proposing an investor-state complaint mechanism, the president calls for a mechanism for investor-state complaints. it reminds me, to be honest, of the popular front of judea. but people want a clear statement. we must state clearly and unambiguously what we are for or against. if you're for investor-state litigation, you should say that and represent it to the outside world and not just walk around. we still have time to make a very clear statement here in the house. you can all decide: are you for investor-state lawsuits, or are you for democracy not being undermined, not being subverted? we'll make that decision in the house. i hope you've been able to put all your arguments in order lately.
i have to say, madam president, the lange report uses the phrase 'preventing fiscal dumping'. preventing fiscal dumping aims at tax harmonisation. national tax systems, however, have grown historically and are guided by national tax morals. neither nations nor their tax morals can be harmonized. tax policy is a central part of the national shaping of society and the economy. for reasons of subsidiarity, neither our trading partners nor the eu can dictate national taxes. tax harmonization cannot therefore be part of a free trade agreement. the wording 'autonomy in fiscal policy' is in line with the spirit of the european treaties. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of the amendment 'autonomy in fiscal policy'. thank you, thank you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are discussing today the demands which the european parliament is making on the negotiations on the ttip agreement with the united states. we are not deciding today on ttip, but we are telling the commission what parliament can accept as the outcome of the negotiations and what it cannot accept. many of the points which were discussed critically in the public sphere were taken up and translated into demands to the commission. i would like to emphasize two points. firstly, we expect the agreements to enshrine workers' rights at a high level. this means, among other things, that all iao nuclear work standards must be signed and complied with. and we need to make sure that workers' rights are enforceable. this means that there must be a dispute settlement mechanism in which workers' rights can be challenged. the reason why these provisions are so important to us is that they help to ensure that international competition does not lead to social and wage dumping. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft resolution on the situation in the middle east. the report before us sets out requirements for the negotiations with the united states, but of course these requirements also apply to agreements which are soon to be submitted to parliament for ratification. it would be incredible to pretend that the proposed agreement with canada and that with singapore have nothing to do with our discussion of ttip. that is to say, according to what is known so far about these agreements, neither the agreement with canada nor the agreement with singapore are acceptable, partly because the protection of workers' rights is not sufficiently guaranteed and partly because an isds is proposed which does not meet our requirements for investment protection. the commission should take into account the fact that the european parliament takes its position seriously and uses it as a basis for decisions on the ratification of agreements.
i have to say, madam president, i must say that i see remarkable parallels between the debate on ttip and the debate on the usefulness of the single european currency, the euro. because in both cases, you find that there is a great fear, which is also constantly being fueled and instrumentalized, a fear of changing anything about the status quo. but we also have to think about what makes sense. just as it makes sense for each country to have its own currency and not for many different countries to have a common one, it makes sense for goods and services to be traded freely. it is therefore pointless to continue to stir up these diffuse fears of a reduction in consumer protection or worker rights or similar matters, which are of course matters which must be discussed but which must not affect the basic principle of free trade. the only thing that is really essential, and which again reveals the typical european thinking, is the attempt to implement a common uniform protection for investment projects. there is no legal basis for this in the european treaties. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can only make it wood-cut. first of all, i would like to say that i am delighted to see once again that the radical right and radical left in greece are working closely together on all issues in ttip. it shows where the enemies of democracy stand. the second is that we need to see that this contract is good for us. free trade has always been beneficial. but it must be handled in a reasonable way. it has to do with jobs and the prosperity of our citizens. i am sure, mrs malmström, that the negotiations will be conducted in such a way that our standards will not be lowered. this parliament will not ratify a treaty in which this parliament or the american congress will surrender their rights to set standards for today and tomorrow. i expect that will be taken into account in the negotiations. that's what i always thought you were. so no lowering of standards! i am also sure that the promotion of french cinema and the promotion of german urban theatre, like the safeguarding of public services, will not be negotiated and endangered like water. i think that is also clear. these are all rumors that are being spread that have nothing to do with reality. i am in favour of a medium-sized company which is discriminated against by american legislation against american companies, being given our protection and not subjected to an american legal process which it cannot afford. this is why the issue of non-discrimination is of crucial importance. the proposal now contained in the document we have negotiated with mr langen, and the direction in which you are moving, seems to me to be a way of regulating these arbitration procedures by clear definitions, by involving professional judges, and in this way the worries are no longer there and these parliaments cannot be eliminated.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the epp, mr gue colleague, will stick to the truth. but the truth is that experience shows that all the trade agreements we have concluded so far have led to more jobs, to more economic growth in europe. that is why mr gonzález pons was quite right to point out that in our view ttip is not only a strategic decision to cooperate more closely with democracy, which links us much more closely than many other democracies in the world, but also a contribution to economic growth. madam president, i believe that the commission has greatly improved these negotiations with its transparency initiative, and has greatly involved the citizens of the european union. but these citizens, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, are not just consumers. i am a member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. consumer protection is important. but citizens are also workers - some even work for large companies, which have a bad reputation in this house. but they also earn their money there, and they earn their wages everywhere, and they are good wages everywhere in europe. we therefore want to ensure that this remains a development which becomes a decision for all citizens in the european union, a decision which benefits those people in europe. the european commission has a mandate to do this. we want to strengthen this mandate with the resolution. i hope that all colleagues, including those who have spoken before, will maintain this objective. we want good standards for the people of europe, and that will be possible with ttip.
i have to say, madam president, we were talking about greece this morning. what's wrong with this country? there is no economic growth, there are no jobs, there are no prospects for young people. what does such a country need, what do the other countries need, where we have a similar situation, where we have a social crisis? they need growth. they need economic growth that can create new jobs and prospects. the ttip is a growth programme without public debt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then some people here say, "yes, that's good for big business". of course, it is good for large companies to reduce tariffs, to cut red tape. but it's also good for medium-sized businesses. it also benefits farmers who can export their oranges to the usa, as a spanish colleague rightly pointed out. consumers benefit from more products and services at lower prices. in other words, it is in the interests of society as a whole that we successfully conclude this agreement. i find it revealing that the extreme right and the extreme left are working together here, and i particularly regret that the greens are not closing in on this truly extremist attack on our growth prospects.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we europeans should seize the opportunities to negotiate a fair free trade agreement with the united states of america. i think that the removal of trade barriers, the removal of tariffs, the development of common technical standards can only be mutually beneficial. but we should also make clear to our american negotiating partners what we europeans are not to do. i am very grateful for the resolution, mr lange. i would like to thank you for the months of work you have put into the resolution. thank you, everyone. i think it is important to point out that we do not want to lower our standards and that above all we want a change of system in isds. we want to move away from private arbitration courts and towards the establishment of an international bilateral commercial court. i trust in your negotiating skills, madam commissioner, and i wish you good luck, our support, and if you work with the americans on a constructive new proposal which moves away from arbitration to international commercial justice, you will have our full support.
i have to say, madam president, the transatlantic economic area can only bring prosperity to both sides if it is properly designed with balance, transparency and a level playing field. in the european parliament, 15 committees have produced opinions and taken into account many of the doubts of concerned citizens. the committee on employment adopted my amendments, for example, that eu standards should not be weakened or abolished: workers' rights, social security, vocational training, social dialogue. if the areas are at risk, we must be informed immediately to make changes. the ilo's core labour standards, such as freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, must be upheld. the united states has not recognized them, but it has not ratified them. i welcome the compromise in the lange report. i am against private arbitration and in favour of the establishment of a european court of arbitration: accountable, constitutional, with procedures based on the rule of law, which cannot be abolished. we must seize this opportunity, madam president, in contrast to the slogans of the unholy alliance of the radical right and the radical left in this house.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make three points at the end of this debate. first of all, the resolution is not a resolution on isds. we have addressed a whole range of issues in the resolution, which addresses the european values that we want to see in a trade agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a very broad resolution on cultural diversity, on social security, on services, on data protection, on workers' rights. isds seems to have become something of a symbol to me. i would also ask those who are very critical to note a development. i do not share the criticism of private arbitration. but i have not heard anyone in the debate today defending private arbitration. i firmly believe that private arbitration is dead and no longer part of trade agreements. we must ensure that this is done in ttip, but also in the 1 300 existing bilateral trade agreements concluded in the member states. it will not be an easy task to agree this with the partner countries. let us do this together and establish a new system that is consistent with the rule of law. it takes a lot of strength. i've heard a lot of fears put in the conjunction because, of course, no one knows exactly what's going to come out at the end of the day. we are discussing this today and will adopt the resolution tomorrow, so that the concerns and needs do not become reality. we want to make clear where we stand. this is not a matter of mere fancy, but a clear mandate for the european commission, with which we will assess - when a text is available - whether we can accept it or not. ladies and gentlemen, let us not be so defensive, let us not just defend something, but sometimes we can also make improvements! we should also discuss this, for example, in the area of workers' rights. if it becomes a bad deal, we will reject it. if it's a good one, if it's what we want, we'll go along with it. ladies and gentlemen, i have been working very inclusively. fourteen committees have submitted opinions and many members have tabled amendments. i want us to send a strong signal together. i know that not everyone is 100% satisfied with a compromise, nor can they be. but if we take parliament's institutional role seriously, ladies and gentlemen, then i would ask everyone to drop some of their reservations and vote together tomorrow for a strong signal!
i have to say, madam president, i do not think that the rules of procedure debate is an opportunity to make systematic political statements. if i may say something about two points. the gentleman who complained that he had no time to speak should be given influence in his group so that his group will put him on the list of speakers. he doesn't even seem to have the clout in his own party to get on the speaker list. secondly, there is no persecution of russians in ukraine, but russians are in ukraine to wage war. that too must be said as the truth.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the appointment of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the european court of auditors because i was absolutely convinced by her cv and her expertise in the danish court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my group in favour of appointing mrs bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. she's perfectly qualified for the job. that is consensus. she has previously held several similar positions at the danish court of auditors and at nato. in addition, ms jakobsen was elected by the president of the court of auditors as chair of the intosai professional standards committee (psc) and appointed by the european investment bank (eib) as a member of the audit committee of the european investment fund (eif) in luxembourg. she'll do very well in her new role, too.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the exercise of the union's rights under international trade rules because this rather technical dossier modernises the basic arrangements for international negotiations and also strengthens the position of the european parliament in some respects.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for my group on the employment rights of seafarers and meps from the mecklenburg-western pomerania region, i voted today in favour of the report on protection against harmful pricing in shipbuilding, because this approach prevents social dumping and ensures fair competition in shipbuilding.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed with my group on the recommendation on the draft council decision approving on behalf of the european union the declaration on the granting of fishing opportunities in eu waters to fishing vessels flying the flag of the bolivarian republic of venezuela in the exclusive economic zone off the coast of french guiana. venezuelan vessels and fishermen will now have to comply with the common fisheries policy for the conservation and management of fish stocks and other legislation. this agreement has no budgetary or financial implications and is therefore acceptable to the group of the european right.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the report on draft amending budget no 3/2015: budget surplus 2014 because i am fundamentally opposed to the need for transparency in the eu budget, to hidden debt and to the priority setting of the supplementary budget.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to carry over the budget surplus achieved in 2014 to 2015 and to enter the amount accordingly in the 2015 budget. the rapporteur recommends that the ep adopts edf no 3/2015, which is supported by the ecr group, but also establishes a political link with edf no 4/2015 (receiving the european union solidarity fund). the ecr group is in favour of adopting ehb no 3/2015 without amendments and rejects any political links between ehb. ehb no 3/2015 should be adopted without restrictions. any deviation would constitute a breach of article 18 (1) of the financial regulation, which states that 'the balance of each financial year shall, depending on whether it is a surplus or a deficit, be entered in the budget of the following financial year either as revenue or as appropriations for payments'.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to carry over the budget surplus achieved in 2014 to 2015 and to enter the amount accordingly in the 2015 budget. the rapporteur recommends that the ep adopts edf no 3/2015, which is supported by the ecr group, but also establishes a political link with edf no 4/2015 (receiving the european union solidarity fund). the commission notes that the commission has not provided any information on the amount of the aid granted to ehb. ehb no 3/2015 should be adopted without restrictions. any deviation would constitute a breach of article 18 (1) of the financial regulation, which states that 'the balance of each financial year shall, depending on whether it is a surplus or a deficit, be entered in the budget of the following financial year either as revenue or as appropriations for payments'.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to carry over the budget surplus achieved in 2014 to 2015 and to enter the amount accordingly in the 2015 budget. the rapporteur recommends that the ep adopts edf no 3/2015, which is supported by the ecr group, but also establishes a political link with edf no 4/2015 (receiving the european union solidarity fund). the ecr group is in favour of adopting ehb no 3/2015 without amendments and rejects any political links between ehb. ehb no 3/2015 should be adopted without restrictions. any deviation would constitute a breach of article 18 (1) of the financial regulation, which states that 'the balance of each financial year shall, depending on whether it is a surplus or a deficit, be entered in the budget of the following financial year either as revenue or as appropriations for payments'.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to carry over the budget surplus achieved in 2014 to 2015 and to enter the amount accordingly in the 2015 budget. the rapporteur recommends that the ep adopts edf no 3/2015, which is supported by the ecr group, but also establishes a political link with edf no 4/2015 (receiving the european union solidarity fund). the ecr group is in favour of adopting ehb no 3/2015 without amendments and rejects any political links between ehb. ehb no 3/2015 should be adopted without restrictions. any deviation would constitute a breach of article 18 (1) of the financial regulation, which states that 'the balance of each financial year shall, depending on whether it is a surplus or a deficit, be entered in the budget of the following financial year either as revenue or as appropriations for payments'.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes a supplementary budget for the eu solidarity fund in response to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. the solidarity aid itself is unquestionable here. however, there are different options for how this aid should be paid. the adoption of a supplementary budget for this purpose is critical in that the financial resources could also be saved in other budgetary areas. on the other hand, eu member states have the right to provide additional funds for solidarity aid to the three countries mentioned. i have reservations on this point because of the situation.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes a supplementary budget for the eu solidarity fund in response to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. the solidarity aid itself is unquestionable here. however, there are different options for how this aid should be paid. the adoption of a supplementary budget for this purpose is critical in that the financial resources could also be saved in other budgetary areas. on the other hand, eu member states have the right to provide additional funds for solidarity aid to the three countries mentioned. i have abstained on that point because of the situation.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes a supplementary budget for the eu solidarity fund in response to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. the solidarity aid itself is unquestionable here. however, there are different options for how this aid should be paid. the adoption of a supplementary budget for this purpose is critical in that the financial resources could also be saved in other budgetary areas. on the other hand, eu member states have the right to provide additional funds for solidarity aid to the three countries mentioned.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund: floods in romania, bulgaria and italy, because for me european solidarity in the event of disasters is an important element of our togetherness and resonates with people.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in response to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. this is in the spirit of mutual aid and solidarity between the eu member states. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in response to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. this is in the spirit of mutual aid and solidarity between the eu member states. i therefore support this request.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes to mobilise the eu solidarity fund in response to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. this is in the spirit of mutual aid and solidarity between the eu member states. the german delegation to the ecr supports this request.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed with my group to the parliament's resolution on the council's position on draft amending budget no 4/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 for the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for romania, bulgaria and italy. the eu solidarity fund (eusf) was established in 2002 to provide support to eligible countries affected by major natural disasters or other exceptional regional disasters. the committee of the regions supports the principle and objectives of the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the introduction of multimodal ticketing systems because this is the right way to enable efficient and sustainable door-to-door travel and mobility in europe. as a 'border child', i have long been frustrated by the fact that travelling across the border by public transport is difficult to understand, not transparent and very expensive. this initiative will enable europe's citizens and visitors from all over the world to access a complete repertoire of travel options, whatever and however many different modes of transport they choose.
in writing. ‒ i abstained today from voting on the own-initiative report on the implementation of multimodal integrated ticketing systems in the eu. there is nothing against this idea, it's nice. and as markets become more and more digitalised, it is certainly of long-term interest. however, at present, with only around 2% of crossborder passenger rail transport, the need is certainly not urgent and of the highest priority. the impetus should come from customers or railway companies, not from the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted today to extend the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect, because i consider the work of this special committee and its impetus for more tax justice in europe to be important. citizens and smes pay their taxes honestly. we cannot let international corporations take us there.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed with my group to extend the mandate of the special committee on tax rulings and other similar measures. the coordinators of the special committee (taxe) decided in may to extend the work of the subcommittee on taxation. the vote on the final report of the taxe committee will take place on 15 october, according to the updated timetable. the european parliament will vote on the report at its november plenary session.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of draft amending budget no 1/2015: european fund for strategic investments (efsi) because i believe that the fund is an important instrument to counter the crisis and to accelerate europe's investments in the states and regions.
in writing. ‒ today, the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) was voted on. it is designed to promote economic growth, employment and recovery in europe. the new initiative promises to enable €315 billion of new investment over three years, largely financed by the private sector. what is not so clearly stated, however, is the fact that the european investment bank is liable for default. in practical terms, this means that the taxpayer is liable for the default risks of private entrepreneurs. the commission has not yet decided whether the efsi should be considered as a new investment. it is inconceivable that a new authority can make better decisions than thousands of company directors. if this task were to be taken seriously, thousands of civil servants would have to be rehired. this is a step towards more bureaucratization. that is why i rejected the efsi.
in writing. ‒ the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is designed to boost economic growth, employment and recovery in europe. the new initiative promises to enable €315 billion of new investment over three years, largely financed by the private sector. what is not so clearly stated, however, is the fact that the european investment bank is liable for default. in practical terms, this means that the taxpayer is liable for the default risks of private entrepreneurs. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is designed to boost economic growth, employment and recovery in europe. the new initiative promises to enable €315 billion of new investment over three years, largely financed by the private sector. what is not so clearly stated, however, is the fact that the european investment bank is liable for default. in practical terms, this means that the taxpayer is liable for the default risks of private entrepreneurs. the commission has not yet decided whether the efsi should be considered as a new investment. it is inconceivable that a new authority can make better decisions than thousands of company directors. if this task were to be taken seriously, thousands of civil servants would have to be rehired. this is a step towards a planned economy on the part of the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the financial instruments are used in a proper manner.
in writing. ‒ the new european fund for strategic investments (efsi) is designed to boost economic growth and employment in europe. the new initiative promises to enable €315 billion of new investment over three years, largely financed by the private sector. this also entails significant risks for the taxpayer, who is liable through the european investment bank for non-payment. the political choice of economic opportunities is not a success story and cannot be achieved without the recruitment of many new and correspondingly inexperienced officials. many areas of europe continue to face fundamental structural problems and need first of all better conditions of competition and functioning banking systems. it is particularly regrettable that european basic research is also being damaged by the efsi. the efsi should therefore be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on draft amending budget no 1/2015: european fund for strategic investments (efsi). i reject the juncker plan and its heart, the efsi. the efsi is contrary to economic reason and is therefore irreparably damaged. i have not endorsed the efsi and i will not endorse any of the budgetary measures that will ultimately bring it into being.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of draft amending budget no 5/2015: responding to the pressure of migration, because i am convinced that the refugee issue needs a humane european response. we need action, not theory. this budget ensures this in part by providing additional appropriations for the frontex agency, the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and the internal security fund (isf). he can be a start.
in writing. ‒ the proposed supplementary budget is linked to the enormously increased challenges of managing migration flows and the associated increases in staff and other resources. the committee of the regions is in favour of the consistent implementation of existing national legislation on asylum and recognises the added value of coordinating the resulting tasks at european level. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ the proposed supplementary budget is linked to the enormously increased challenges of managing migration flows and the associated increases in staff and other resources. i am in favour of the consistent implementation of existing national legislation on asylum and i also recognise the added value of coordinating the resulting tasks at european level. i therefore support this supplementary budget.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes a supplementary budget for the eu solidarity fund in response to the floods in romania, bulgaria and italy. the solidarity aid itself is unquestionable here. however, there are different options for how this aid should be paid. the adoption of a supplementary budget for this purpose is critical in that the financial resources could also be saved in other budgetary areas. on the other hand, eu member states have the right to provide additional funds for solidarity aid to the three countries mentioned. the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already taken a number of important decisions.
in writing. ‒ the proposed supplementary budget is linked to the enormously increased challenges of managing migration flows and the associated increases in staff and other resources. the committee of the regions is in favour of the consistent implementation of existing national legislation on asylum and recognises the added value of coordinating the resulting tasks at european level. the committee on budgets has therefore supported this supplementary budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because, with the expiry of the quota system, we need new measures to stabilise the situation of milk producers. the report makes constructive proposals for a competitive and sustainable dairy industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on the prospects for the eu milk sector review of the implementation of the milk package in particular for articles 9, 24, 26 (separate votes) and article 70 (separate vote). it is important to me that our farmers get a fair price for their milk and that their family farms have a future. i voted against article 69: subsidized milk powder destroys domestic markets in africa.
in writing. ‒ the end of the eu-wide milk production quota system offers european dairy farmers a great opportunity to benefit from the strong increase in global demand for dairy products in recent years. however, the european milk sector is currently in a serious crisis situation due to the impact of the russian trade embargo and falling producer prices. the european parliament has today called for an appropriate response to these challenges and for the international competitiveness of the eu milk sector to be improved. i call on the commission to draw up uniform rules throughout europe for the production, processing and marketing of milk products and to provide adequate crisis instruments. in addition, the present situation makes it necessary to open intervention. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the price increases. overall, much more attention needs to be paid within europe to strengthening the position of producers vis-à-vis the often overpowering retail chains and to better protecting them against unfair commercial practices. the price war of the discounters must not be waged on the backs of the dairy farmers, who have already reached the bottom of the bar in the face of increasing price pressure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the prospects for the eu milk sector review of the implementation of the milk package for reasons of group discipline. this own-initiative report considers the impact and success of the 2012 milk package to date and identifies the areas where action is needed to ensure a viable, sustainable and competitive milk sector in the post-quota market. the report calls on the commission to address the eu-created crisis in the sector, which has been caused by the russian embargo, a jump in global demand and global price volatility. the report also highlights the specific challenges faced by milk producers in disadvantaged, remote and mountainous regions and identifies measures that could help producers in these areas.
in writing. ‒ as coordinator of my group for the acp delegation and rapporteur on the role of family businesses in emerging countries and on development policy, i voted today in favour of the report on the external impact of eu trade and investment policy on public-private initiatives in third countries. i mean, we have to take our mission as a 'europe of values' seriously, especially when it comes to our global economic power. we have the potential to change the world here.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the fruit and vegetables sector since the 2007 reform because i believe it strikes a balance between the need and benefits of free markets on the one hand and the need to support our small and medium-sized, partly agricultural producers in the fruit and vegetables sector on the other.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the preparation of the commission work programme 2016 (2015/2729 ((rsp)). i would like to point out at the outset that we are not going to allow any 'catch-the-eye' procedure or blue cards on this item of the agenda, since the agreement between the groups is that only one speaker per group will speak.
the debate was closed by the tabling of seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 9 july. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the commission has already done so. i think that we already have a modern, strong company law in europe, so that the commission proposal could not really be too promising in this area. in my view, too little attention has been paid to the national involvement of shareholders in the national systems, or the question of the protection of minority shareholders has not been resolved. but the report as we had it in committee at the beginning of may, in my view, has made the situation much worse, which is something we do not want any more today, under the heading of better legislation. we cannot generate strong companies and economic enterprises and growth by strengthening shareholder rights in a piecemeal way and by ignoring existing corporate legal systems or by giving companies even more responsibilities. there is nothing to oppose today to having dual-stock company systems, whereby the functions of the executive board and the supervisory board should not be reduced by the function of the general meeting, especially with regard to the design of remuneration policy. the identification of shareholders must also be in the hands of the respective companies. it is only the excellent work of the shadow reporters that has ultimately led to us having significantly improved compromises here. these also meet the requirements better. the long-term involvement of shareholders would be strengthened also in the company's activities and existing national regulations would not be circumvented. the problem, in my view, is country-by-country reporting. i think this proposal is the wrong place to put it, and we run the risk of having different country-by-country reports in different regulations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission proposal has been considerably improved by mr sergio gaetano cofferati. the report now before us strengthens transparency in corporate governance. but unfortunately, this text does not go far enough, particularly in the area of participation. my question to the majority of my colleagues in the christian democrats and the liberals is: why are you so opposed to employee participation? it is precisely the employees who have a great interest in a company having a good, long-term future! it is also of concern that the general meeting of publicly listed companies is obliged to vote on remuneration policy every three years. this could shift the balance of power between shareholders, the supervisory board and the board of directors unilaterally in favour of the shareholders, and short-term shareholders can thus endanger the long-term welfare of the company. (the speaker declined to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, we're definitely talking about corporate tax secrecy today. the leftists of all colours - i would say - would like to see the tax secrecy lifted. companies should make public for everyone what taxes they pay in which country -- that's the glass company. but companies are not responsible and accountable to the public, but to their owners and to the tax authorities. companies also have a right to data protection and tax secrecy. mrs. regner said, "bring light into the darkness". i believe that the right to privacy and tax secrecy comes first. in finland there is no such thing as tax secrecy. once a year, the amount of money each finn has earned and the amount of taxes he pays is published. in finland, the day is called national envy day. today, the leftists of all colors are demanding the glass company. tomorrow they'll demand the glass citizen too. i reject both.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would like to begin by thanking all the colleagues who took part in the compromise for making it possible for us to reach a common position in the end. i would like to thank our shadow rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefka, and also the rapporteur, mr sergio gaetano cofferati, for their work. i am convinced that the objective of sustainable business development and greater transparency unites us across political groups. the question is how far we can go with this directive on these points. i know that there is a catchword for the rapporteur and for many other speakers in this house. it's about country-by-country reporting. i am not an expert on the question of accounting. i just know that we had a tax law professor on the taxe committee last week who pointed out that even with the country-by-country reporting - okay, he was from the uk, but i think he was speaking for everyone - that in the end, intra-corporate transfers would not be covered. and the problem with the big groups, the big companies in the world, is not that they don't provide transparency per country, so to speak, but that we don't know how the financial flows for patents and other things within the companies go. i therefore think that there is still a considerable need for discussion here in order to achieve the objective of greater transparency. but the first step has been taken with this proposal. secondly, as mr becker has already said, we must find adequate solutions that work in all the member states. and there are different models of company law in the different member states. i think we have made a great step forward in the changes to the compromise. i would therefore ask the rapporteur to look together now at other ways of really reaching a common goal. i think we have a long way to go, but i think we can do it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for your question. i think it's fair to say that we need to provide incentives for a number of investors. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. i am sure that we will also discuss further steps that can be taken in the trilogue. that is why i do not want to rule it out at this stage.
member of the commission. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be here again in the context of this debate on the market stability reserve. once this parliament ratifies the agreement reached with the council, this reserve will form an integral part of the union's emissions trading scheme, and this scheme is the cornerstone of the european union's climate policy. however, in recent years, the excess of allowances on the market has prevented this scheme from giving the necessary signals to make sufficient low-carbon investments. the stability reserve is designed precisely to tackle this problem and to make the supply of rights more flexible. this is expected to increase market confidence in the emissions trading system and to provide the right price signals in the coming years to achieve our long-term emission reduction targets. in this way, the stability reserve will ensure that we do not miss important opportunities for efficient emission reductions. i would like to thank all the members for their work. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr belet, and his negotiating team, as well as mr tajani and the alternative rapporteurs from the political groups, for their efforts. the compromise reached provides a solid solution for the major elements of this market stability reserve. let me highlight the most important ones. the commission's original proposal set 2021 as the date for the reserve to become operational. during the debate many mps requested an advance of this date, which has led to the commitment reached for the reserve to be operational in 2019. the undertaking also provides for the transfer of rights withdrawn from the market and rights not allocated to the market stability reserve. and so, the nine hundred million allowances that were withdrawn from the market between 2014 and 2016 will not be returned to the market in 2020 as initially planned. unallocated rights are also transferred to this reserve, which will reduce the risk of regime volatility. the importance of innovation - for me one of the essential elements of this agreement - is also reflected in the compromise text reached. it has been agreed that, in the context of the review of the emissions trading system, consideration should be given to whether 50 million unallocated allowances should be used to accelerate investments in low-carbon technologies. the agreed text also recognises the importance of industrial competitiveness and the risk of carbon leakage for european industry. i can assure you that these two elements will be important issues to be addressed in the context of the proposed revision of the emissions trading system. all the elements i have mentioned will allow a solid architecture of the market stability reserve, as well as ensuring the strengthening of the emissions trading system in the future. we have reached an important milestone with that compromise text, which allows us to focus now on the review of the emissions trading system for the period 2020-2030. last year i committed myself to parliament to translate the elements of the 2030 climate and energy package relating to this emissions trading system into a concrete proposal as soon as agreement is reached on the market stability reserve. i will deliver on this commitment and intend to present a proposal this july on the basis of the consensus reached by the heads of state and government at the european council last october 2014. this proposal will be an important part of the work we are called upon to do to achieve an energy union with a future climate change policy, which is a priority for this commission.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mr belet, mr giovanni la via, the chairman of the committee, mr antonio tajani, the rapporteur for the committee on industry, and all the other people who have contributed. the epp will of course vote in favour of the text tomorrow. it was a good proposal put forward by commissioner hedegaard and we have made it even better with the help of her successor, miguel arias cañete. the proposal we have now on the table is more ambitious than what the commission originally proposed. i say this to all those who criticise the proposal because they say it is not enough. we are not only starting two years earlier, but more importantly, contrary to the original proposal, the allowances temporarily taken out in backloading are actually permanently placed in the reserve and the allowances that we have not distributed by 2020 are also placed in the reserve. this is an ambitious climate change initiative to make emissions trading work again. on the other hand - and i fully agree with this - we have made some adjustments which help to avoid the shifting of co2 emissions. we do not want the energy-intensive industry to disappear, but we want it to be up to date with the latest technology through innovation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we as a parliament have made sure that we have helped industry on this difficult path. i ask industry to accept this outstretched arm, this outstretched hand, and to reject unambitious climate change proposals. i think that is the way forward and the way forward for the commission in its proposal next week, which i am sure will be presented next week: ambitious climate action but with opportunities for industry to continue producing in europe. if we can do that, we will also be a good example for the rest of the world.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. first of all, thank you for your cooperation. i must say that parliament has acted with a real sense of responsibility on this important issue. the emissions trading system will finally be able to breathe, it must be said, thanks to the market stability reserve which we will be launching here tomorrow - our group will also be voting in favour of this. you can react to economic fluctuations. the ets was previously designed and constructed in a static way, which was a design flaw that we had built into it. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not affected by the crisis. i think it's very good that we take a total of 1.5 billion allowances into the reserve out of the market that are giving us these difficulties, that we then really get a reasonable realistic price for a ton of co2, that investments are made investments in climate-friendly technologies , but also that clear framework conditions are given, legal framework conditions for those who want to invest now. in that sense, it was very overdue that we had to do this. i believe that this will create a stable legal framework, but it will also send a signal to the rest of the world, including the cop21 conference: the fact that a sensible industrial policy can be combined, as mr tajani has just described, with climate protection and environmental protection on the one hand, is not mutually exclusive. i am therefore very glad that we - i repeat - acted so responsibly and put this whole thing in motion. a drop of wormwood is the starting date for our group. but it is a compromise, as i have already said. i think that we should not be ashamed tomorrow of having introduced this legislation in this way, but rather, quite frankly, we should be proud of having made a step forward in european climate change policy and industrial policy. we are waiting for your proposal, commissioner arias cañete. i hope he comes before the summer. perhaps you can comment on that in a moment. i asked mr šefčovič at the time in the committee. he said, "yes, before the summer break". i asked him, "what year?" in 2015, he said, and that's how it should stay. 2015, before the summer break.
i have to say, madam president, the glass is half full or half empty. you can agree on that. but i think it's extremely important to say, yes, it's half full. and it's good that something should happen and that something has to happen. we are glad that the launch is even earlier than the commission has proposed, namely by two years. the good thing is that we're creating a flexible mechanism. you really have to consider that progress. the backloading certificates will also be placed in the market stability reserve. it's really okay, and it's been a long fight. the problem is, what happens to the huge surplus in the reserve? why not delete them directly? of course, this was something we wished we had done more of. that is also inconsistent in some ways. so we'll have to talk about that in the next time. because it is important that the price increase is achieved so that the effect can actually take place and the emissions trading actually does what we want in terms of climate targets, so that the glass is not only half full.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission is not as the author of the opinion in the committee on development, i would like to emphasize two key points. first, there is an urgent need to increase humanitarian aid spending in 2016. the european union, as a global actor, has a particularly large number of emergencies to deal with. but this also includes humanitarian crises, such as those in iraq, syria, south sudan, but also in ukraine. the budgetary aspect is that the increase in humanitarian aid must not only be made in commitments but also in payments. this is the only way to ensure that funds are immediately available to those in need. secondly, i would like to point out again that not all eu member states have met their commitment to spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development cooperation for a long time. this target should have been achieved in 2015. the eu must mobilise enough resources in its budget for development work to support this effect.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i expressly support the priorities identified by our rapporteur, josé manuel fernandes, and i now turn to the discussions on the 2016 budget in the committee on external trade. we already believe that the budget should take account of the growing importance of trade policy and the changing geopolitical landscape and that a good allocation of funds is therefore also necessary. we believe that the increasing trade activities of the commission services must also be taken into account here and that we must above all do more in the future: pay more attention than before to the proper management of trade agreements, in particular to interim and ex post evaluations and their effects, and also to take greater account of the evaluation of the court of auditors' special report. it is clear that the highly emotional debate on globalisation also requires the eu to provide funds for an effective communication strategy. in addition, the 2016 budget should reflect the achievements of the 9th wto ministerial conference and, above all, should also provide sufficient funds for trade-related assistance aid for trade to the least developed countries to provide technical assistance and capacity building. i would also point out that the discussion we are having on the financial support for european initiatives for the internationalisation of smes is of paramount importance.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have had many conflicts with the council in the past, and i have the small hope, but still a little hope, that we can get to a new era. if we look at the payment crisis, which we hope is behind us, the council has completed all the phases of psychotherapy, from denial to catharsis to the beginning of healing. so i am looking forward to a situation where a few weeks ago the institutions agreed on a paper on how to deal with the payment crisis. i hope very much, ladies and gentlemen, that the luxembourg presidency will remember very well what the latvian presidency has agreed. in this context, i ask myself: when the council looks at the draft budget and changes it, does it do so arbitrarily, as we have seen in recent years, or is there a clear political priority in the council's policy? this is all the more important because, to my surprise, the commission has presented a draft budget with a gap of 10 billion between payments and commitments. it's not a cardboard stool. and this is happening in a situation where the eu is facing considerable difficulties; we talk about this every week in plenary. i think of the crises in the middle east, i think of the failed state of libya, and i think of the ukraine crisis, to name a few. if the budget is a policy based on numbers, then the european union's external policy instruments must be effective. it's not just the money, it's the other thing. and the same is true of the migration policy tools that we are developing. we are facing an additional challenge because we have to integrate the efsi into this budget. we've agreed to a financing package that means a billion more will be taken out of the margins. but that still means five billion from the current budget. as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, the challenges are great. i hope we are no longer talking about cancellations but about the political shape of the budget. it would be a new era.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. thank you very much, mr president. i would also like to thank mrs georgieva for her excellent cooperation in drawing up this proposal. we in the group of the european people's party are very pleased that this budget is taking steps in the right direction. at the same time, however, we are a little saddened that the status quo is still being maintained, particularly - and i have to disagree a little with the rather medical analysis of my predecessor, mr geier, whom i very much appreciate - i do not see how we can really tackle the problem of unpaid bills if we at the same time provide for commitments of 153 billion euros and means of payment of 143 billion euros. then there is a simple and poignant 10 billion euros missing, and it will not disappear into thin air. i would be very happy if we in parliament had the courage to adopt a really great reform approach, one which does not always add up all the desirable things and end up with unpaid bills.
acting president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by expressing my joy, since i am a kind of ghost. i was there ten years ago, during the last luxembourg presidency, and i am very pleased to be back and to be working with you. the motto of the luxembourg presidency is 'creating a union for citizens' and i think our citizens are absolutely entitled to the best possible security. that is why security must be one of our very highest priorities. as you said, mr president, the events that have shocked and shaken us in recent months are precisely what are forcing us to strengthen and, as you have stressed, to adapt even more our means of cooperation to these new challenges of terrorism. for this reason, the luxembourg presidency will focus all its efforts on the implementation and monitoring of the renewed internal security strategy for the european union for the years 2015-2020. if you will allow me, i will recall the main principles of this strategy and tell you what is planned for its implementation. the renewed internal security strategy was adopted by the council on 16 june. it is important to note that this strategy is also based on the elements and principles contained in the commission communication on the european agenda on security of 28 april 2015. it is also important to underline that the renewed strategy should be seen as a common and shared agenda of the european institutions, and both the council and the commission have taken into account the principles set out in your resolution of 17 december 2014. let me now mention a few of the main points. firstly, this strategy identifies three major priorities in the field of internal security of the european union for the coming years. the first is the fight against terrorism - you have just pointed out, we have had the tragic experience of this in recent months - radicalisation leading to terrorism and recruitment and the financing of terrorism and the prevention of these phenomena. for this priority, particular attention will be given to the issue of foreign terrorist fighters, to the reinforcement of external border controls in a systematic and coordinated manner, through relevant databases and on the basis of risk assessments and risk indicators, and by integrating the internal and external aspects of counter-terrorism. the second priority is to prevent and combat large-scale organised crime. the third is to prevent and combat cybercrime and to strengthen cybersecurity. the second element i would like to stress is respect for fundamental rights, the need to respect and defend the rights, freedoms and principles enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union in all actions to create and maintain an area of freedom, security and justice, which is a fundamental principle. a third important element is the need for a comprehensive, multidisciplinary, integrated and information-based approach. access to, availability of and exchange of information in the context of preventing and combating serious transnational organised crime and terrorism will remain crucial issues for the coming years. we must pay particular attention to the interoperability of existing systems. the coordination of investigations and prosecutions in the member states should be encouraged and improved, including for financial investigations aimed at confiscating criminal assets, as well as the effective use of joint investigation teams and mutual legal assistance and mutual recognition procedures. finally, agencies in the field of justice and home affairs, such as europol, eurojust, frontex and ecpol, play an important role in the internal security of the european union. it is necessary to continue to build and support these agencies, which serve the member states. it is worth recalling that our presidency will continue to negotiate with the european parliament on the new europol regulation with the aim of achieving a legislative base enabling the agency to use its full potential in the service of the member states. as regards the other elements to be taken into account, we must first strengthen our operational cooperation and improve our border management capabilities, including the use of the most modern technologies. secondly, we must strengthen the prevention of crime by paying particular attention to organised financial crime, the confiscation of criminal assets and the prevention of terrorist attacks, in particular by preventing radicalisation. secondly, we need to adopt a swift and flexible intelligence-based approach that enables the european union to respond in a comprehensive and coordinated way to emerging and constantly evolving threats. finally, we must consolidate the existing legislative instruments and ensure that they are better applied. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, these are some of the key principles of the renewed strategy. now let us talk about the implementation of this strategy, which we are working very hard to prepare a precise and dynamic work programme. discussions will begin in the council, in particular on the standing committee on operational cooperation on internal security, which is responsible for ensuring proper implementation and regular monitoring of the strategy. this will be done in close cooperation with the commission and involving, where appropriate, other key actors, such as european agencies, for example the european external action service. the presidency intends to discuss in detail for the first time our approach to the implementation of this strategy on 22 and 23 july when cosi and the coordination committee on police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters meet informally in luxembourg. in addition to the methodology for implementation, we intend to start work immediately and to mobilise all our working groups in the council to this end. we will of course take parliament's new resolution into account, as we have done in the past. meps were invited to the conference organised by the italian presidency in september 2014. the chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs was a key speaker at the event. the presidency, the commission and the member states used the conclusions of this conference to draw up the council conclusions on the renewed strategy. we also used the commission's final report on the implementation of the internal security strategy, which took up the european parliament's resolution on this subject. i therefore remain confident in our ability to develop a common approach to the implementation of the strategy. the chairman of cosi will inform the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs of this work. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we look forward to your new resolution. i am convinced that many of your recommendations are already reflected in the renewed strategy and that we will take them into account when implementing the strategy. i am thinking, for example, of the best use of existing instruments before creating new ones, the need to adopt a comprehensive and balanced approach taking into account the principle of proportionality, and then the need for more effective and more operational cooperation between the member states, the attention to be paid to the judicial dimension and the role of the european parliament and national parliaments in ensuring democratic control of the implementation of the strategy. i thank you for your attention and i look forward to listening carefully to your debate.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for the opportunity offered by your oral question to debate further with you on the european agenda on security. i also want to express my thanks to claude moraes for his support. thank you also for the draft resolution, which is to be voted on two days from now, and which i will of course take into consideration. i hope that the resolution will have the wide support of this house. as i – and many among you as well – have said several times, we need to show our citizens that we all work together on the basis of a shared agenda. today’s debate happens, as was mentioned before by claude, on the 10th anniversary of the 7 july terrorist attacks in london. sadly, it also happens only a few days after another series of unacceptable terrorist attacks. even if these are addressed specifically tomorrow, as you know, it shows that our security has to remain high on our agenda. one year ago, in june 2014, the european council asked the union to renew and update the previous internal security agenda 2010-2014. all the institutions have provided their contribution to this process in a coordinated fashion. following the last commission’s report on the implementation of the internal security strategy (iss), both the council and parliament paved the way in december 2014 for the commission to develop its european agenda on security adopted on 28 april 2015. last month, the council adopted, on the basis of the commission’s agenda, conclusions on the development of the renewed european union internal security strategy 2015-2020. the renewed internal security strategy is the result of this process, and it constitutes a major achievement for the european union. it was endorsed at the highest level by the european council at its june summit, both in terms of content and in terms of cooperation among the institutions. in terms of content, the new strategy sets out the shared vision of the three institutions for the next five years on what needs to be done at union level to make europe more secure for the sake of its citizens, societies and economies. it identifies the main priorities for the union’s actions, namely tackling terrorism and radicalisation, disrupting organised crime and fighting against cybercrime. from the institutional point of view, the commission, parliament and the council have acted together, with each one offering their strategic contribution to the security strategy in line with the spirit of the lisbon treaty. as the commission put it in its european agenda on security: successful implementation on renewed internal security strategy depends on the political commitment of all actors concerned to do more, and of course to do better. this includes not only eu institutions, but also member states and eu agencies. in addition to active engagement, coordinated and coherent action is a prerequisite. i therefore welcome the european parliament’s call to the commission and the council to work together towards effective implementation and to engage in an interinstitutional dialogue. the commission is fully committed to maintaining a constant dialogue with the european parliament on internal security matters. the commission undertakes to update the european parliament and the council twice a year on the implementation of the agenda. this will be the opportunity to take stock, together, of both the achievements and the challenges faced, and to exchange views on the state of eu internal security. in addition, transparency contributes to increasing citizens’ confidence in security policies. the commission will therefore set up an eu security consultative forum to further enhance transparency and participation. this forum will bring together member states, the european parliament, eu agencies and representatives of civil society, academia and the private sector. the format of the forum will be finalised in due course, and the european parliament will be kept informed. in the same context, the commission will also develop performance indicators for key eu institutions. now, when speaking about implementation of the agenda, an important aspect is resources, including those of the eu agencies. the european agenda on security has set, as one of its key principles, the need to ensure better application and full implementation of existing instruments. pursuant to this principle, implementing the agenda will centre on consolidating the existing instruments and reprioritising available resources. the principle also applies to the agencies: for instance, the european counter-terrorism centre within europol is also included. it is meant to bring together anti-terrorism law enforcement capabilities, thereby pooling resources and maximising the use of the existing legal structures, services and tools already available. of course, ensuring sufficient resources to eu agencies is crucial for them to be able to perform their work and to fully contribute to the goals of the agenda. as envisaged by the european agenda on security, the commission will launch a reflection on how to maximise the contribution of all jha agencies through closer inter-agency cooperation. the commission invites the member states to assign appropriate resources at the national level and to reinforce their efforts in seconding their national experts to agencies. in a situation of limited budgets, all efforts must be made to prioritise and reallocate. increasing the agencies’ budget is the only other way to increase resources. as you know, the commission is following the interinstitutional agreement of december 2013 that foresees that all eu institutions and bodies – as well as all agencies – reduce their total staffing levels by 5% over five years. this does not prejudge the budgetary rights of the european parliament and the council, but any increase in the agencies’ resources would require the firm commitment and agreement of both branches of the budgetary authority.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, the security agenda is one of the most important issues we have at the moment. because few years ago, hardly anyone could have imagined that terrorists would be moving around holiday resorts and randomly picking out european citizens - in this case mainly british citizens - on the open beach to shoot. no one would have thought that in france a man would be beheaded who had been a simple, decent worker. we have now reached a security situation which, on the one hand, makes us anxious and, on the other, calls for a prudent but consistent response. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to take action in this area. it is therefore essential that member states cooperate closely and speed up their cooperation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the information provided by the member states is not used to the detriment of the community. and even those colleagues who sometimes have reservations about data exchange must be consistent and say: we need close data exchange, because the criminals are networked, while our authorities sometimes still suffer from certain restrictions. the security agencies need our trust and support to ensure that they can work consistently. the agencies need adequate financial resources whether eurojust, easo, frontex or europol to enable them to work accordingly. we also need an effective agreement on passenger records with which we can work accordingly. now that we know that this instrument is a very important instrument in the fight against terrorism or serious crime, we must also use it. despite the fact that we have our focus on terrorism, we should not forget other types of crime, especially in the field of organized crime, because the human, financial and economic damage is terrible.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. fear is a bad advisor. the same applies to the debate on the european security agenda: respect for fundamental rights distinguishes us from totalitarian systems. we must therefore respond with the confident voice of the european rule of law. where changes in security policy are necessary, we must act without falling into frantic actionism. the following points are particularly important to me. firstly, the judgment of the european court of justice on the abolition of data retention must be respected in the implementation of security policy: no needless mass surveillance of citizens. secondly, we need a comprehensive review of all security policy measures to identify concrete areas for improvement. the commission has been guilty of such an evaluation up to the present day. we need better information exchange between member states so that existing information can be used effectively. fourthly, the work of intelligence services is also important for us, for our democracy, but they too must operate within the limits of the rule of law. in order to assess their activities clearly, we need a general definition of what is meant by national security. fifth: flight is not a crime and protection from prosecution is international law. as asylum seekers increasingly work with or come from organised crime, we must respond. but in return, we need legal and safe ways so that refugees are not dependent on the services of criminal smugglers. sixthly, the radicalisation of europe towards crime and terrorism also requires a greater emphasis on prevention. poverty and permanent discrimination make many people feel that they are not part of our society. stigma and exclusion are everyday experiences for too many people. this is why integration, prevention and deradicalization are imperative. in conclusion, we are facing enormous challenges. but the greatest of all will be to keep in mind that we can only achieve lasting security through democratic means and the rule of law.
question no 3 by mr sargentini: i have a question. we had a lot of experts on the subject of passenger records with us, we had experts with us who have explained the tftp to us by now. i visited europol and also found out about the tftp. why do you simply repeat the simple untruth that these instruments are not useful when the experts have proved to us every day that they are useful and are now being used very purposefully?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have a central employment policy guideline, namely the creation of sustainable and high-quality jobs in europe. the fight against unemployment must be given top priority, especially the fight against youth unemployment. i would like to thank the rapporteur in general. the report makes some very important corrections to the commission's draft. firstly, the mobility of workers is an opportunity, but it must not become an obligation. we also need accompanying measures for mobility, such as improving the transfer of pension rights, the recognition of qualifications, and much more needs to be done to make things easier for workers. the second important point is a clear rejection of the automatic pension system. the link between retirement age and life expectancy must be removed from the commission's draft. it is not the right instrument, because only a high level of employment and really good jobs will ensure the sustainability of public finances and also of the pension system. clearly, however, spoken guidelines are not enough. there must be binding rules.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to make two comparisons. in 2008, the unemployment rate in germany and greece was almost the same. it was 7% in germany and 8% in greece. in 2015, the share was 26.6%. in spain, the figure was 8% in 2007, and now stands at 23.2%. it was not just the crisis, madam commissioner, it was the austerity programmes, it was the many reforms. this was, of course, the uncontrolled immigration that has reached europe in the meantime. the greek people have said stop to this austerity programme. i think all employment programmes are pointless as long as five-digit numbers of foreigners enter europe every month, illegally and are not deported. we need a consistent return policy, then we can also regulate the labour market.
i have to say, madam president, jean lambert has developed valuable ideas for harnessing the potential of the green economy. we are taking on board the european commission's green jobs initiative and the green sme action plan, and we are targeting hundreds of thousands of new jobs. the report was adopted by a large majority in the committee on employment, which is responsible for this. my group, the epp group, has been involved in almost all the compromises. but there are proposals with strong ideological overtones. we have problems with the budgetary discipline which is the basis for new growth and investment. there is also exaggeration, for example when member states are strongly urged to introduce a new social, climate-friendly growth indicator. the important thing is to eliminate the shifting of the tax burden from the labour factor to the environmental factor. in my motions i have called for detailed and independent studies to be carried out first on the costs and benefits of such redistribution. we also find paragraph 60 critical, which calls on the eu commission to include environmental and climate considerations in the european semester. we are against it because it distracts from the necessary reforms and from balanced budgets as the main objective of the semester. i hope that this point will be voted on tomorrow so that we can then, dear jean, say yes to a report.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i would like to join my colleague, mrs záborská, in saying that she is not going far enough, as she always does. there is one area of work which is completely forgotten when we talk about equal opportunities in the labour market: the educational field. wages are paid in nurseries, in kindergartens, in children's homes. but parents are out. there can be no sustainability if parents, especially mothers are kept as slaves of society. we need a parental wage. parents, especially mothers, are our most important workers in europe. i would ask that these should be taken into account and not simply taken for granted in their performance.
in writing. environmental policy is important, and there is consensus on this. but it is also in this area of policy that we must offer realistic solutions, not wishful thinking. unfortunately, this has only been partially successful. as a shadow rapporteur for the green labour initiative, i have tried to focus on innovation so that we can achieve both environmental protection and growth. i have tried to focus environmental protection on decentralization and subsidiarity as long as there is no crossborder pollution. i have tried to leave decisions on training and safety at the national level and not to europeanise them. and i warned against being too optimistic, because many projects are undertaken without considering side effects and consequences. the problem of building insulation and the difficulties of fire protection are particularly relevant. unfortunately, my warnings have only partially been heeded and i must say that there is too much wishful thinking in this report. many green issues have been linked to social objectives and are to be managed at european level. for example, the commission should ensure that 'social change is well managed' or that 'employment with full social protection' is created. unfortunately, centralization and the overloading of paper with social demands will not achieve a competitive green economy.
the council's president-in-office. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, for almost two years now we have been engaged in a complex process of negotiations whose aim is nothing less than to establish a new global partnership to meet the inseparable challenge of poverty eradication and sustainable development. this partnership will guide the international community for years to come. the european union and its member states should not miss this historic event. this partnership must be based on the principles of universality and shared and mutual responsibilities. we will have to take into account the capacities of each individual and involve a wide range of stakeholders. this new global partnership will also have to promote human rights, equality, non-discrimination, democratic institutions, good governance and the rule of law. it should enable everyone to participate actively and ensure environmental sustainability and respect for the limits of our planet. women's rights, gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls, which are already an end in themselves, are essential means of implementation and will have to be promoted at all levels. i am thinking particularly of girls' education, which is an extremely important factor in development. after monterrey and doha, which laid the foundations for this partnership, we must continue to develop an overall vision adapted to the change in the world order. the addis ababa conference which opens next monday should not be limited to assessing the progress made in implementing the monterrey consensus and the doha declaration. it must be forward-looking, allow for an integrated approach to all means of implementation and focus on the mobilisation and efficient use of all financial and other resources. the european union and its member states must continue to uphold this fundamental principle, which has been the cornerstone of the monterrey process. national public funds are the largest source of stable and directly available funding for most governments and are therefore at the heart of sustainable development financing. national governments have the primary responsibility for mobilising and making the best use of these public resources. the conference should result in an integrated approach to the implementation and financing of the new partnership. it is a question of striking a strong balance between the three dimensions of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. this is about encouraging policy coherence and, above all, about clearly defining our commitments and the results that all actors must achieve. we believe that the outcome document of the conference should form the 'means of implementation' part of the post-2015 programme to be adopted in new york next september. the outcome of the summit will thus provide a solid basis for the conference of the parties, cop 21, at the un framework convention on climate change in paris in december. while financial resources remain important, even essential - national public funds, private funds, innovative financing, international aid - we must also put non-financial means of implementation at the centre of the game. it is essential to create an enabling environment for development, to strengthen institutional capacity, to stimulate trade and investment, to invest in education and to encourage science, technology and innovation. in addition, this new partnership requires a strong monitoring, accountability and evaluation framework to be an integral part of the post-2015 programme. it will need to encompass national, regional and global levels and involve all governmental and non-governmental actors in its implementation. ladies and gentlemen, the european union and its member states are determined to play an active and constructive role in all the processes under way and to ensure their convergence. to this end, the development council of 26 may adopted a position on official development assistance, which reaffirms the collective commitment of the union and the member states to reach the target of 0.7% of gross national income devoted to official development assistance by the deadline set by the post-2015 programme, as well as their priority commitment to the least developed countries. it should facilitate the active participation of the european union and its member states in the ongoing international negotiations and contribute to their success. the success of this global partnership depends on the contribution of all of us. we are determined to play our full role and cooperate constructively with all stakeholders and, in particular, the european parliament, in order to be able to establish and implement an ambitious post-2015 agenda that brings the transformation and inclusion we need.
member of the commission.– mr president, there is only one week to go before the un financing for development conference in addis ababa. thank you for today’s opportunity to exchange views on this, and also on the related parliament report on tax avoidance and tax evasion. the addis conference is a priority for the european union. we remain fully committed to ensuring its success, as it will be crucial for the outcome of the post-2015 summit in new york and the climate conference in paris later this year. i am particularly grateful for the active engagement of parliament throughout the preparatory process, and for your resolution on financing for development, as well as on the global post-2015 development agenda. and i am delighted that six of you will be joining the european union delegation attending the conference. president juncker has mandated high representative/vice-president mogherini and me to represent the european union in addis ababa. together with the representatives from national governments, we will make sure that the european union and its member states continue to speak with one voice in these last crucial stages. let me outline the overall principles and expectations that will guide the eu approach. first, addis must be transformational. we need an ambitious and coherent engagement and agreement, covering all means of implementation: aid, investment and domestic resources, as well as an enabling policy environment. we need a more strategic, more catalytic role for official development assistance to help leverage other means of implementation and maximise their impact. second, addis must promote universality. the old days of north and south, donors and beneficiaries, are over. we need a true global partnership to achieve such a broad agenda. all countries need to act and contribute their fair share – and so does the private sector and civil society. the european union stands ready to play its full part in implementing the sustainable development goals at home and through our external actions. third, addis must embed strong mutual accountability. we need an integrated, transparent and reliable framework to keep track not only of our financial commitments, but also of overall progress towards achieving the sustainable development goals. we all have been working hard for an ambitious addis outcome document, one that reflects eu aspirations and objectives, and respects the council conclusions of 26 may. the european union negotiations have been challenging. the latest draft text is a good outcome for the european union, but the document is not yet agreed. differences remain on a couple of issues, including on the exact relationship between the addis conference and the post-2015 summit. negotiations are still ongoing in new york as we speak, and they may continue in addis. the european union has been well prepared and ready to play its constructive and leading role throughout the negotiations and beyond, including through some concrete figures, for instance, eur 58 billion for official development assistance. this makes the european union collectively the world’s largest donor. we have recommitted to achieving the official development assistance target of 0.7% of gross national income within the timeframe of the post-2015 agenda, including an even more ambitious effort for least-developed countries. regrettably, this commitment has not been followed by other developed and emerging donors. eur 100 billion is the amount we estimate the european union can mobilise to finance notably infrastructure investments in partner countries through blending by 2020, leveraged through an eu grant component of up to eur 8 billion. more than eur 16 billion will be dedicated to addressing environment and climate change objectives. and eur 35 billion is a conservative estimate of the annual value of the exports of the least-developed countries to the european union, which grants them duty-free and quota-free market access. let me now come to parliament’s report on tax evasion and tax avoidance. the commission concurs with the general analysis of this very comprehensive report. having exchanged views with rapporteur schlein on several occasions, i am well aware of the importance parliament attaches to these issues. i take careful note of your proposed action plan to support developing countries in mobilising more domestic resources. improved domestic resource mobilisation can indeed significantly contribute to a more sustainable and reliable sourcing of revenue. adequate administrative capacity of our partner countries’ tax administrations, and their political will to reform, are key in this respect. domestic revenue mobilisation and the fight against illicit financial flows, tax evasion and tax avoidance will have an important role in the addis and new york conferences. the negotiations on the addis outcome document have been complex on this point. the latest proposal tabled could in our view be considered as a good compromise and reflects most of the issues and actions contained in parliament’s report. there are still difficulties around the un committee on tax, and its upgrading to an intergovernmental body. we clearly support giving developing countries a stronger voice and participation in the definition of the global tax governance agenda – without necessarily creating yet another intergovernmental body. we should focus on the substance, not on taking decisions on the format at this stage of the process. the commission is committed to ensuring that the developing countries which have the ambition for reform are supported in this difficult path. as part of a global partnership initiative, we will be organising a side-event on the margins of the addis conference and are developing a document as a first basis for discussion under the title ‘collect more – spend better’. honourable members, we are close to achieving a very important result, but we cannot yet take it for granted. in addis and new york we have a unique opportunity to redefine global development cooperation for the years to come. let us make it count.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. you mentioned earlier that europe is the world's largest donor of development aid. however, we must ask ourselves: are our actions achieving objectives sufficiently in relation to our investments? i'm not going to. as coordinator of the ecr group for the acp delegation, i was at the acp-eu parliamentary assembly. i've been talking to colleagues from emerging markets. they say europe is a difficult partner. we are asking for things that are unrealistic. the best example is the obligation to have a gender representative if a developing country wants funds. i am all the more pleased that we are discussing today the focus of tax avoidance and evasion. this is important. as a reporter on family businesses in emerging markets, i have spoken extensively with local smes. they're mad. they pay their taxes, but corporations or millionaires pay nothing. one trillion dollars is lost to emerging markets every year, that is one-fifteenth of the eu's gdp. it's a big difference. in my report i call for a specific programme 'devetax 2020' with the aim of creating more than 2020 new finance offices and functioning structures in the acp states by 2020. i hope you'll support me here.
madam president, commissioner neven mimica and the presidency of the council! what do sweden, denmark, luxembourg and the united kingdom have in common? they are the only four countries in the 28 that have so far kept their promise to reach 0.7%. and i am glad that the council presidency is actively involved in this plenary session, because not all the council presidencies we have had in the past have shown this interest in development policy. i believe that a crucial key to the financing of development cooperation lies with the member states. i come from a country, germany, which is not exactly the poorest. but germany's oda ratio has not moved up at all, from 0.36 to 0.4, in 15 years. i think that luxembourg should take the opportunity, in its presidency of the council, in the european year of development, to go ahead with the good example that luxembourg is setting and to have a strong influence on the nation states so that we can gain more credibility there. how can we be credible in negotiations like the one in paris if we have not reached the oda quota for 15 years, for example?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in a few days' time, addis ababa will decide on one of the milestones on the way to the new sustainable development goals, namely the financing to achieve these goals. in addition to the many financial measures that developed countries should and must commit to, developing and emerging countries should also unlock and use their own financial resources to end poverty and hunger and enable their citizens to live healthy and secure lives in their home countries. the developing countries are called upon to make efforts to impose their own taxes and duties. because often these countries are rich: rich in raw materials, rich in young, creative people and rich in considerable potential for sustainable economic development. but the revenue of these countries must not end up in the pockets of a few and the wealth belongs to foreign companies, which then take the profits out of the country. transparency and fairness in national and international tax systems must finally be established! public revenue in developing countries must be developed in the long term in order to solve social problems on the ground. subnational taxes and levies should also be used for this purpose. international cooperation in tax matters must be promoted. our report provides a major stimulus to this end. but then they should be put into practice.
i have to say, madam president, the g77 countries have not reached agreement a week before the addis ababa conference. the chances of a successful conference have been reduced. the european parliament's socialist group therefore calls on all parties to reconsider their position and to come to the conference with better proposals. this also applies to the commitment of all the industrialized nations to spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development aid. we cannot wait until 2030 to meet the commitment. as i said today in my speech as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development on the eu budget for 2016, the eu also plays a crucial role in funding. at the forthcoming conference on financing for development in addis ababa, we must do everything we can to ensure that the outcomes become milestones in development policy. i wish all those involved in this for the european parliament, for the commission, but also for the presidency of the council, much success and good luck!
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the programme of action of the luxembourg presidency (2015/2718 ((rsp)). ladies and gentlemen, i would point out at the beginning of this sitting that there is no catch-the-eye procedure on this point and that no blue cards are allowed. to be clear, this is a decision of the conference of presidents. the luxembourg presidency, with warm welcome, has the floor to mr xavier bettel, prime minister.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council (25 and 26 june 2015) and the eurogroup summit (7 july 2015) and on the current situation in greece (2015/2719 ((rsp)).
president of the european council.– mr president, i would first like to wish the luxembourg presidency all the best. there is a very challenging six months ahead and i look forward to the closest cooperation possible. knowing prime minister bettel, i am sure that he will do an excellent job. we meet at a unique and difficult time for europe, and for our economic and monetary union. before i discuss the special euro summits of last night and in june, i will report briefly on the key outcomes of the june european council. leaders discussed how to support front-line european union countries under the greatest migratory pressure. we agreed on the relocation and resettlement of 60 000 refugees over the next two years. for clarity, the scheme will complement existing national efforts, with eu countries now receiving 600 000 asylum applications per year. yes, the discussion was difficult and at times divisive. to my mind, it was the first time european leaders have had such an honest exchange on the refugee question. the european council chose to keep to the voluntary approach agreed at the special european council in april. there is a balance to be struck between national sovereignty and action at european level in this matter. now we have an agreement with which we can work, and on which we can build. the luxembourg presidency is receiving voluntary pledges from member states on both relocation and resettlement. based on progress so far, we hope that the numbers agreed at the european council will be reached. in the light of the ongoing emergency, leaders also agreed that the european union will assist in setting up ‘first reception’ facilities in front-line states to ensure swift registration of irregular arrivals. meanwhile, the commission will accelerate talks with countries of origin and transit on readmission to strengthen our returns policy. these will be on the basis of the ‘more for more’ principle in related areas such as development aid. the british prime minister confirmed his government’s intention to hold a referendum on membership by 2017. talks on uk renegotiation will now get underway. it was the first step in a longer process that will also end at the european council. we will come back to this in december. the nato secretary general jens stoltenberg discussed with us the new security threats facing europe, just as we learned of the latest terror attacks in tunisia, kuwait and france. in the context of international terrorism and other security challenges, leaders tasked the high representative with preparing a new european union strategy on foreign and security policy for june next year. we also agreed to use eu funding to support collective efforts to invest in the future of european defence. finally, we discussed economic matters, most notably the report on completing economic and monetary union (emu), published on 22 june. the report makes clear that the priority in building a deeper monetary union is reform at national level. we can best address the structural weaknesses of the eurozone by confronting the weaknesses of its national economies. leaders asked the council of ministers to examine the emu report further to determine quickly the next steps. leaders also highlighted the importance of building a digital single market and noted the commission’s new work plan in this respect. given the central role of the digital economy in job creation and growth, the european council was absolutely clear that this area is now a top priority. to achieve this goal, the future co-operation of the european parliament is vital. two weeks ago, i called a euro summit on 22 june to help break the impasse in negotiations on financial assistance to greece and to ensure that all leaders were on the same political page. over the next days, leaders asked the eurogroup to accelerate discussions on a last-minute proposal by greece. we believed a deal was achievable then. two weeks later, there is now a race against time to re-build trust. i will not discuss the rights and the wrongs of the greek referendum. everyone has their own perceptions. it is necessary at this stage to move on. let bygones be bygones. at the euro summit last night, leaders had a frank and honest exchange about the difficult situation now before us. we asked prime minister tsipras to present his government’s ideas for sustainable growth and prosperity in greece. the eurogroup will now consider the detail of greece’s request for a programme under the european stability mechanism (esm) treaty. clarifications will be needed in the coming days and should be provided as quickly as possible. all sides in the negotiations share the responsibility for the current status quo. i call on all leaders to try to find consensus – that can be our common success, with no losers or winners. if that does not happen, it will mean the end of the negotiations, with all the possible consequences, including the worst-case scenario, where everyone will lose. our inability to find agreement may lead to the bankruptcy of greece and the insolvency of its banking system and, for sure, it will be most painful for the greek people. i have no doubt that this will affect europe, also in the geopolitical sense. if anyone has any illusions that it will not be so, they are naïve. the stark reality is that we have only four days left to find ultimate agreement. until now, i have avoided talking about deadlines, but i have to say loud and clear that the final deadline ends this week. all of us are responsible for the crisis and all of us have a responsibility to resolve it. as plutarch once said, ‘to find fault is easy; to do better may be difficult’. i hope doing better is not as difficult as plutarch once thought. let us prove him wrong. (applause)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr president, prime ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the european council in june was called upon to formulate a response to the problem of migration. the commission had proposed a mandatory system of relocation and resettlement. the european council, after a sometimes very painful debate, agreed on a system based on voluntary work. i didn't like this decision, because i would have preferred a mandatory system. i would have preferred the community method to be applied; we have a treaty provision. (applause) but, to be honest, the main thing is not there. we have agreed on the principle of relocating and resettling 60,000 people. it is a step in the right direction, since the luxembourg presidency, which i trust will be able to organise volunteering to achieve the target of 60 000 people, which must be maintained. but i would say that we should not be proud. i am not criticizing anyone, but for europe to be proud to welcome 60,000 people on its soil is not a huge achievement, given the scale of the problem. (applause) i would like to thank since the commission itself proposed the figure of 60 000, i was not going to criticise that decision. but if i may speak from my heart, i must say that we are not up to the task, neither of us! (applause) i would like to thank i was able to present the report on the deepening of economic and monetary union at the june council on behalf of the five presidents (because we thought it would be wise to involve the president of the european parliament). i will not go into detail here because you have no doubt read it carefully, but i want to say that in the face of the greek crisis, in the face of the many breaks in solidarity which are taking place in europe, we will have to agree or not with all the steps proposed in this programme on the deepening of economic and monetary union. we must apply it. the answer to the greek crisis is not to do nothing. the right answer is to deepen economic and monetary union, to make it more sustainable.
in the absence of the agenda, and following the request that the prime minister of greece, mr tsipras, should speak in this house, i invited mr tsipras and he accepted the invitation. it is the first time that the prime minister of greece has had the opportunity to discuss in public with the representatives of the european peoples the situation in his country and perhaps the deepest crisis we have been in as a union for a long time. i welcome this and therefore give the floor to the prime minister of greece, mr tsipras. (applause from the centre)
prime minister of greece. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour for me to speak in the temple of european democracy. thank you very much for the invitation. it is an honour to address the elected representatives of the peoples of europe at a crucial moment for my country, for greece, but also for the euro area and the european union as a whole. i am among you only a few days after the strong verdict of the greek people, after the decision we took to give the greek people the floor to decide immediately and to take a stand, to take an active part in the negotiation concerning their future. just a few days after his strong verdict, which mandated us to step up our efforts to achieve a socially just and economically viable solution to the greek problem, without the mistakes of the past that have doomed the greek economy, without the endless and hopeless austerity that traps the economy in a recessionary vicious circle and society in a lasting and deep depression. the brave choice of the greek people in conditions of unprecedented pressure with the banks closed, with the majority of the media terrorizing that the choice to say no is a choice to break with europe... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) it is a pleasure to be in the temple of democracy, because i believe that here we hear arguments and we judge arguments. listen to me, and beat him. i have therefore said that the brave choice of the greek people is not a choice to break with europe but a choice to return to the founding principles of european integration, the principles of democracy, solidarity, mutual respect and equality. (applause from the centre and the right) it is a clear message that europe, our common european fabric, the european union, will either be democratic or will have enormous difficulties in surviving the difficult conditions we are going through. the greek government's negotiations with its partners, which are about to be concluded, seek to reaffirm europe's dual respect for the common rules of its functioning and for the absolute respect of the democratic choice of our peoples. my government took over, i personally and my government took over about five months ago, but the rescue programmes have been in place for about five years. i take full responsibility for what has happened in these five months or so. but we must all honestly realize that the main responsibility for the impasse in which the greek economy is now, for the impasse in which europe as a whole is now, with the choices made, does not relate to the last five months but to the five years of implementation of programmes which have not led to an exit from the crisis, and i want to assure you, regardless of the judgment of each one as to the rightness or wrongness of the reform efforts: it is a fact that greece, over the last five years, and the greek people have made an unprecedented effort to adapt, a difficult, hard effort. this effort has exhausted the greek people's strength. of course, such an effort was not limited to greece. it has happened in other countries, and i have full respect for the efforts of other peoples to cope and for governments to take tough and difficult measures. in many european countries austerity programmes have been implemented, but nowhere have these programmes been as harsh and as long-lasting as in greece. it would not be an exaggeration to say that my country has been transformed over the last five years into an experimental austerity laboratory. but the experiment, we all have to admit, didn't work. in the last five years, unemployment has skyrocketed. poverty has skyrocketed. social exclusion has widened. the public debt, which was 120% of gdp before the programmes were launched and now stands at 180% of gdp, has also increased. today the majority of the greek people - regardless of our assessments, this is a reality and we must accept it - feel that they have no choice but to demand to be freed from this dead end, and this desire, expressed in the most direct and democratic way, we as a government are called upon to implement. we want an agreement with our partners, but an agreement which will signal a definitive way out of the crisis, which will give the impression that there is light at the end of the tunnel; an agreement which will provide for credible and necessary reforms - no one is denying them - which will transfer the burdens to those who really have the ability to carry them and who have been protected by governments for the last five years and have not carried the burdens that have been transferred entirely to the shoulders of wage-earners, workers, pensioners, those who can no longer bear burdens, and of course with redistributive policies in favour of the low and middle classes for a balanced and sustainable development perspective. the proposal we are putting to our partners is a proposal which includes credible reforms based on the criteria of, as i said before, fair burden sharing and the least possible recessionary effects. it includes the demand that the country's medium-term financial needs be adequately met by a strong and forward-looking development programme, because if we do not put the growth agenda on the table, we will never get out of the crisis. the first objective must be to combat unemployment and encourage entrepreneurship. and of course our proposal also includes the request for an immediate commitment to start a real dialogue, a real debate on tackling the problem of public debt sustainability. there can be no taboos between us, we must look at reality and seek to find solutions to this reality, however difficult those solutions may be. the proposal was tabled with these features at the eurogroup summit yesterday. today we are sending a request to the european support mechanism. we have undertaken to make our proposals absolutely concrete over the next two days and i hope that we will be able to meet the demands of this critical juncture in the coming days for the good of greece and the euro zone, and i would say not only for the economic but also for the geopolitical interests of europe. i want to be clear on this point: the greek government's proposals for the financing of its obligations and for the restructuring of its debt are not intended to place an additional burden on the european taxpayer. the money that was given to greece, let's be honest, never made it to the greek people. it was money that was given to bail out greek and european banks but never went to the greek people. (applause from the centre and the right) in addition, as of august 2014, greece has not received a tranche disbursement under the rescue programme that was in force until the end of june. loans of 7.2 billion euros have not been given since august 2014 and it was not our government that was in power from august 2014 to january 2015. and then the doses were not given because the programme was not implemented, and the programme was not implemented then, not because there was then the specific ideological reference that exists today, but precisely because this programme then and now does not find social consensus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. ladies and gentlemen, during the same period greece negotiated by claiming these 7.2 billion euros of the disbursement, but having the obligation to repay to the same institutions from which it claimed disbursements, during that period, installments of 17.5 billion euros. the money was paid out of the savings of the greek people. ladies and gentlemen, despite all that i have said to you, i am not one of those politicians who claims that all the ills of my country are the fault of evil foreigners. greece has reached the verge of bankruptcy because for too many years the governments, the governments of greece, have created a client state, have increased corruption, have tolerated or even increased the entanglement of politics with economic power, have left unchecked the tax evasion of the great wealth. according to a credit suisse survey, 10% of greeks manage 56% of the national wealth, and this 10% of greeks in the period of harsh austerity and crisis found themselves in the safety net; it didn't contribute to the weight as much as the other 90%. these great injustices, the rescue programmes and the memoranda not only failed to redress but unfortunately extended them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is not affected by the taxation of capital, and that the tax system is not affected by the taxation of capital. no so-called reform has ever been able to deal with the notorious triangle of entanglement that has been created in our country, years ago and before the crisis, between the political establishment, the oligarchs and the banks. no reform has improved the functioning and efficiency of the state apparatus, which has learned to operate to serve selfish interests rather than the common good, and unfortunately these proposals are now in the spotlight. our proposals focus on real reforms that aim to change greece. these are reforms that the previous governments, the old political system and the bailout programs, did not want to happen in greece; this is the real truth. the effective tackling of the oligopolistic structure and cartel practices in individual markets, including the anarchic and unprofitable television market, the strengthening of control mechanisms in public revenue and the labour market, with a view to combating tax evasion and tax avoidance, the modernisation of public administration constitute the reform priorities of our own government and we of course expect the agreement of our partners on these priorities. today we come with the strong mandate of the greek people and with our determined will not to clash with europe but to clash with the established order in our country and with the established logic and attitudes that have sunk greece and are sinking the eurozone along with it. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union. what we call the greek crisis is nothing but the overall inability of the eurozone to find a final solution to a self-perpetuating debt crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european history is a history of conflict but, at the end of the day, of compromise. but it's also a story of convergence and expansion. the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way. let us not allow it to become a divided europe. the european parliament has been called upon to take a decision on the matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. i am sure that we all understand the urgency of the moment and will respond, we will assume our historic responsibility. (applause from the centre and the right)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. welcome to the european parliament! before i speak about greece, i would like to ask the president-in-office of the council: if this is the heart of european democracy, then i would also ask the european parliament to take part in the council's deliberations - as it did in the past - including in the person of our president. i think that's important. (applause from the centre and the right) i am not going to go into detail. i am not talking about economic policy today, i am not talking about budget figures, but i would like to talk about the principles of european culture today. let's talk about decency, for example, about partnership, about how to deal with friends. mr tsipras, you represent a government which has said in recent weeks: your defense minister has threatened the european union that he will send waves of refugees across europe if europe does not pay. and your now retired finance minister called our european partners - the people of portugal, spain and belgium - terrorists because we wanted to spread fear. i would have expected the greek prime minister to come here today and apologise for these unacceptable remarks. but unfortunately, he passed away today. (applause from the centre) let us talk about reliability and trust, also a cultural asset in europe. in february 2015, at your first european council, mr tsipras, you promised that greece would present a reform programme. the commission has not yet received any concrete proposals from greece which could form the basis for consultation. yesterday, too, everyone was sitting together again without any basis for consultation. they are destroying confidence in europe. the rest of europe has lost faith in you. (applause from the right) mr president, you speak of dignity, which is a key term in your policy in greece. you know what dignity is? dignity is truth, honesty. your government has told the greek people that the banks will be closed because the evil ecb wants to put pressure on them, and varoufakis, your now retired minister, has said: 'on tuesday the banks will open again.' today is wednesday, the banks are still closed. mr tsipras, you are not telling your people the truth, and that is a shameful policy! (applause and whistles) i want to continue talking about dignity. the question of dignity also involves the kind of friends one associates with. i have only to look at the plenary: the extremist groups of europe are being applauded by the left and the right. this is le pen, strache, ukip. (applause from the right) mr tsipras, the extremists of europe are applauding you, and one thing, of course, cannot be missed: fidel castro has congratulated you on the great success you have achieved. you're surrounding yourself with the wrong friends! (applause from the right) i would like to say one more thing about dignity, the dignity of others in europe. if we're talking about cutting debt, please don't lie to the people. the debt cut will not be paid by foreign financial institutions, banks, or any financial markets. no, portugal will pay 3.5 billion euros for the debt relief and spain 24 billion euros. it will be the farmer in portugal, it will be the nurse in slovakia and it will be the civil servant in helsinki who will have to pay your debt. i would therefore ask that the dignity of these people be respected. (applause from the right) i would like to introduce the concept of solidarity. greece is in a very painful time. that is why jean-claude juncker offered 35 billion euros in reconstruction aid, which you refused. greece borders bulgaria to the north. bulgaria is a member of the european union. as an experienced politician, you know the living conditions of the people there. how can you explain to the bulgarians - in terms of solidarity - that greece cannot now tolerate further cuts, even though the minimum wage in five eurozone countries is lower than in greece? do you think about these people? (applause from the centre) i would like to mention two concepts of european culture, namely the question of hope. the people of this continent need hope, hope for the future. yesterday, prime minister straujuma sat in your seat. in latvia, the gdp fell by 14% in one year 2009 an economic disaster. there, politicians of all parties did not hold a referendum, but they fixed the budget, reformed their country and led it into the future. today we have a future for the people there. you, mr tsipras, have made a disastrous record, and that is why you are not a symbol of hope. (applause from the centre) the last thought is democracy. you represent ... (thunder in the hall)
if you keep shouting at mr weber, he will not be able to use his speaking time. in that respect, you are causing the overdraft of his speaking time. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) democracy is the ability to listen. we know you don't have them. please, mr. weber, please go on.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. i am, to be honest, rather grateful for the applause, because it clearly shows who the extremist forces are here, who wants to destroy europe. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would like to say a few words about democracy. tsipras is here as a representative of greek democracy. he held a referendum and won with 61%. mr tsipras, the socialist prime minister of slovakia - fico, a socialist - has announced that he is now considering holding a referendum because the slovaks are tired of having to open the pockets of the greeks. can other countries now vote, mr tsipras? we have enough national perspectives in europe. europe is not the sum of national referendums, europe is the compromise, the search for compromise. you've left the path of god. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) i would like to express our absolute respect for prime minister tsipras as the elected representative of his country. he was elected democratically. but i say as a politician, as a representative of the epp, we will deal with you politically. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. they love failure, and we love success. they divide europe, and we love europe. i hope you come to your senses and finally present a programme!
i am not going to go into detail. we all knew that this debate would be lively. so it's okay to be a little emotional here. we know you're having a special time today.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. i have already given some of my time to speak to colleagues in my group, so i should like to make a very brief point. firstly, ladies and gentlemen, i do not think that, in view of the crisis and the catastrophe which has become very real for many people and which could possibly occur this coming weekend, it is time for us to use this platform to develop acting talents on the one hand. mr weber, i will tell you this very specifically: to preach arrogance, schoolmastership and anti-communism in the old german way. (applause from the centre and the right) you can leave that out, because it's not gonna help anyone. this is not the bavarian table, this is the european parliament. (applause from the centre and the right) mr tusk, i have noted very kindly that you have been very cautious and very objective in your assessments. i hope this style will take hold. what we cannot do is to continue to build up a threat, as if there had been no decision on sunday, as if people had not said: 'we have reached the limit, we can go no further. but you also said: we want to remain in the european union, we want to remain in the eurozone. please withdraw the hardliners and the hardliners, especially on the creditors' side! it is not helpful to try to impose one's own ideological reservations on a country as a regulatory measure. under the pretext that everyone must follow the rules, something is being done which has played no part in the history of europe, especially in the history of germany. germany has proved, with regard to the debts of the first world war, that it does not have to pay debts for 37 years, that it can have 93 years to pay the debts of the first world war, and that with regard to the second world war, there was an international debt conference in 1953, which for the first time created the prerequisite for germany to go this way! (applause from the centre and the right) it is time we finally put aside this historic responsibility towards the people of europe and put aside some of our know-how. i would also like to ask my german colleagues in particular, no matter which group, to support us, that is quite clear. but i think that's the way it has to go: let's finally sit down together and talk about what has to be decided now. it is about solutions that are sustainable, and not just about explaining what needs to be done and what you expect from others. respect the people of europe. you must also respect sunday's decision. (applause from the centre and the right)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. ladies and gentlemen! i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. i always do that when i don't know what's going on anymore, and that's what i'm doing right now, and i collect and i collect. and at the top of the pile of newspapers last week was a german newspaper with the photo, the portrait of a greek pensioner who had collapsed crying in front of an atm. and for me, it's the photo that's going to be the most memorable of this week. i think that this photo actually captures both the reasons that led to 60% voting no in greece. but i think, and this is the madness of this situation, that in this photo, many of the reasons were captured by the people who voted yes. because the vote in greece was a vote that the impoverishment of a large part of society - and it is by no means the whole of society - can no longer continue. but it was also clearly a vote that the hope for change was still in the european union. (applause from the centre) and that's your job now. i also think that in a historical situation you are the strongest prime minister of greece, at least in my own memory, and that you must now be the one to lead your people into a proper reform perspective. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the troika's reform programme makes the word reform itself something to be shunned. (applause from the centre) i have to tell you now: maybe i am naive, but i actually expected you to come here and not only say: no more nepotism and corruption, but i had this naive wish, tsipras comes now and says: this is how i will do it with my people. (applause from the centre) this is what a just tax system will look like. this is what a just pension system will look like. we all know that you can't cut pensions any further. but the question is: how do the pensions in greece get justice? this is what the health system in greece will look like in the future, so we won't need any more poor people's clinics. i believe that this is also what you can do to not only lead the greeks into a better future, but also to make sure that the europeans go with you. and we have to! this cohesion, which has been lost over the last five years, can be regained if you speak to your people and to the citizens of europe in this way. i do not mean only the heads of state or government or some of those who have not necessarily contributed to inviting you here today. we must get into this direct debate, and the europeans - this is what guy verhofstadt said - must get out of a wrong policy towards the debt burden. and i am of the same opinion as guy verhofstadt that a solution must be found which is not only needed for greece but also for other countries in crisis. then that's fair. and then it's also european. (applause from the centre) mr tsipras, i know that time cannot be stopped. i wish we could, but obviously, everything has to be decided this week. listen to those who want a european solution! and remember, because you are so strongly appealing to democracy, europe is big. the east is part of this, and it needs solidarity. and democracy and putin, that's not possible! i wish you luck, and i wish europe luck! (applause from the centre)
the european parliament has a duty to act. i've prepared for this debate like everyone else, and i've been thinking, what could come of it? i was hoping that the greek prime minister - mrs harms is quite right - would have made some proposals today. because the scary thing about the debate on this topic in recent months is that many years ago in my home country i was involved in advocating that countries in difficulty be helped, that solidarity be shown. and then i saw that it was used in portugal, in spain, in ireland, that they contributed and that went ahead. in greece too, mr prime minister, he doesn't listen at all, that's how i imagined it , in greece too excuse me, i thought you would be interested in hearing our opinion we made some progress. and then, mr. prime minister, the election came, and everything changed. and from that day on, greek politics was seen as a new promise every day, a new commitment, but nothing concrete was ever put on the table. since that day, you can't be trusted to do what you say. and solidarity is not just taking, taking, hoping that somehow it will work out. but solidarity also means that you make your own contribution. otherwise, it's just selfishness and thinking only of yourself. and, mr. prime minister, i think that's exactly the mistake. you have to deliver. i would just like to mention the president of the commission: what commitment has jean-claude juncker made to meet you? it ended up being 60 million, and he offered you 35 billion. you go back to greece and say, "we're going to have a referendum and ruin everything". is that solidarity? do you think anyone can believe you're still serious? that's the problem. credibility is a key requirement for a story to work. and if you cannot believe it, if you think that this man is just talking about general things, and that nothing concrete is coming out, then greece will be in the greatest trouble. the blame is not on those who seek help, but on those who refuse and lie. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the european parliament has been very much involved in the debate on the future of the european union. but there was a lot of hypocrisy involved. the chairman of the christian-democratic group has said that mr tsipras has not told his people the truth. but what did the christian democrats do when they promised the german people that they would never have to pay for foreign debts? was that the truth, mr. weber? the chairman of the socialist group has spoken - to the applause of the house - that there will never be a grexit. yes, but wasn't it always said that our help was conditional? when they say that there will never be a grexit, it means that there will always be help: that is: nothing is conditional. grexit will be prevented in any case, and the money will flow in any case. that is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! the chairman of the liberal group has also spoken in favour of democracy. at the same time, he dictates to the greek prime minister five points in his notebook on how he should govern. this is not a democracy! democracy is the rule of the people, and if the greek people have decided, then, ladies and gentlemen, that decision must be accepted.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. even more than the excitement of this debate, in which mr weber unfortunately was particularly negative, i think that the calm speech of mr tusk at the beginning made the seriousness of the situation clear. we are facing a fundamental change of course. i have heard too much in this debate about who said no to what for what good reasons. if we can't agree on what we're going to say yes to together, there's no way forward. europe must say yes to debt relief for greece, and greece must say yes to large-scale reforms in a loud and concrete way. the european parliament has a duty to be involved in the process of european integration. the truth is concrete: hic rhodus, nunc salta!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr tsipras, you said you did not want a confrontation with europe, you wanted a confrontation with the establishment in your own country, greece. there's only one way to go now. you must say very specifically within a few hours what that means. first, how does tax justice get in the country? secondly, how is poverty to be combated? thirdly, how can we get a proper administration back and how can we make sure that the tanker kings pay their taxes again? we know very well that in your country the weak shoulders have borne everything and the strong shoulders have borne nothing. if you do that, there will be a wave of sympathy in europe that will follow you. but you have to make it real, and you can't just talk about wanting to do it, you have to do it. this is the order of the day, and you owe it not to us but to the youth of your country who still need a safe place in europe. the second point, mr tusk, is addressed to you, the heads of state and government and the finance ministers of the eurozone: we expect something from you. we must stop playing the game of setting an example. solutions must be found! (applause from the centre) and you don't need much. they need 50 per cent of the courage, 50 per cent of the prudence and 50 per cent of the european commitment that the president of the european commission has shown in recent weeks. that's all you need, you two! but you must do so in the interests of europe, in the interests of the people of our countries. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the ideological trench warfare and populism must stop now. the european union must be able to take action to protect the rights of its citizens. there is no denying that serious mistakes have been made on all sides and there is no doubt that greece needs to make structural reforms. but creativity has to go far beyond austerity and cutting. it is hard to believe that in greece the churches or even the rich shipowners are still not involved in financing. the system is unfair. it's also a myth that nothing has been done, since incomes have fallen by a third since 2008. one in three households in greece now has to live on less than €7 000 a year. that's not even 600 euros a month for families, not for individuals! in terms of labour standards, greece is on a par with qatar. economically, none of this made any sense -- none of these sacrifices. they are preventing consumption, they are not increasing state revenue, and they are not creating prospects for the greek economy and for new, good jobs. it is therefore all the more important that we all come together to find a balanced solution and that we all stand in solidarity with the greek people. greece is at the heart of europe. (applause from the centre)
ladies and gentlemen, we're now going to the catch-the-eye procedure. i have a million wishes here for catch-the-eye. i can only call five colleagues. catch the eye
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister tsipras for coming. thank you for bringing this debate into this house, which i think is the appropriate place to debate something as important as the future of europe. i think it is up to us to discuss that – not just for the president of parliament, mr schulz, to present his own opinion as if it were the view of this house. the greek crisis is not just a problem of greece. it is a european problem, and we can only solve it if we see it as our common endeavour to show to the people of europe that europe still offers positive prospects for a better future. let us handle that future with care. greece can only overcome the crisis if we offer a fair and viable solution that gives security to the people and space for manoeuvre for the reforms that you have mentioned – reforms, not austerity. the returns from those reforms also needs to stay within the country to give new prosperity to people. they should not be spent on years of debt repayment only; we need to have debt reduction on the table. it is our common future that is at stake. so let us be prepared to go to the table to negotiate for a fair and good deal for greece and for a common future of all of us.
i have tried to give the floor to one or two speakers from each group in the order in which the requests were received and taking all the groups into account. i thought that mr glezos should be given preference for reasons which were apparent afterwards, after his speech.
thank you very much, mr tusk. i must thank you all very much. i would like to thank mr tsipras, you, mr president of the council, and the president of the commission. ladies and gentlemen, i believe that, despite all the differences of opinion and even the conflicts, it can be said that this debate today was certainly a landmark debate on the future of europe and that, with this debate, the european parliament has fulfilled its role as the heart of european democracy. thank you. thank you. (applause from the centre)
in writing. the economist has delivered the decisive verdict on greece: the greek economy is hopelessly uncompetitive. the reforms proposed so far are counterproductive and the institutional reforms required are taking too long to have an effect. consequently, greece will not be competitive in five years' time. if guy verhofstadt is attacking alexis tsipras with rhetorical force and listing greece's failings, why have he and the european parliament not spoken sooner? the reforms required are institutional in nature. it will take a decade to implement them halfway. if greece were not a member of the euro area, every economist and every politician would propose a sharp devaluation of the greek currency. this is not the way forward, because greece is to remain a member of the euro area. the greek economy will therefore remain uncompetitive for the foreseeable future. grexit would not be the end of greece, but a liberating blow.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr vajgl, thank you for the information. we'll get back to you on that. i'm gonna have to put this off for now.
i have already been informed of the matter. the appropriate steps have already been taken.
thank you, thank you. we shall certainly come back to this in amendment no 117.
mr jadot! i have to live with the fact that any interpretation of the rules of procedure that i make is interpreted by you politically. i can't change that. i shall try to follow the rules of procedure correctly. i have received two compromise amendments after the debate. i must first of all - you have presented this quite correctly - ask the house whether it agrees that we should vote on these amendments, which were tabled as compromise amendments at the end of the debate. there must be a vote in plenary. i can only put this to the vote afterwards. now you have tabled one on behalf of the green group, which is amendment no 118 as a compromise amendment. and you have a point which was made by the rapporteur, mr lange. it is clear from the content - this is the nature of amendments, which are called compromise amendments - that they are intended to achieve the broadest possible intergroup majority. i have therefore concluded, after consulting the rapporteur, that the lange motion has a better chance of achieving a compromise. that is why i recommend that the rapporteur's motion be put to the vote. mr. bütikofer, don't bother, i've decided that this is the way it is. i shall now ask the house whether it agrees with that interpretation. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) listen to me, my friend. you can't get excited until you've heard my argument. but you've already made your case. but at least listen to my explanation. i will now ask the house first of all whether the lange motion should be put to the vote. that's the best way to settle the matter. i therefore ask first of all: do you agree that i put the lange motion to the vote? (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
article 22 of our rules of procedure clearly defines the procedures to be followed in the event of differences of opinion on the rules of procedure. mr jadot and i have different views. that is why article 22 and there is a clear explanation from the committee on constitutional affairs states that the president must bring about a decision. the phrase which the committee on constitutional affairs has inscribed in our rules of procedure is: 'in accordance with the provisions of rule 174 (7), the president may first obtain the consent of parliament.' that's exactly what i just did.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a few comments on the rules of procedure. i do not think that the case you are addressing is relevant. you have not even suggested that there is a difference of opinion on the paragraphs of the rules of procedure cited by mr jadot. this paragraph of the rules of procedure, quoted by mr jadot, clearly states which proposal is to be voted on first. in your reply you did not refer to that at all, but to a completely different reason, namely a procedural political consideration of which motion might have a better chance of winning a majority. but that is irrelevant to the question of which proposal is further removed from the original text. i therefore ask you to adhere to the unquestionable wording of the rules of procedure. (applause from the centre and the right)
i'm sorry, mr. bütikofer, you may not have been listening closely enough. i referred to article 174 (3), which gives me the right to proceed as i am doing. before the vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole:
you don't have to call me majesty. in accordance with rule 170 (3), the president shall decide on the admissibility of amendments. where compromise amendments are tabled after the debate has been closed in accordance with paragraph 4 of this article, the president shall decide on the admissibility of each of them on a case-by-case basis, after having ascertained that the amendment in question is a compromise. i did. the following general criteria for admissibility can be identified: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. now it goes on to say: 'only the president can propose that a compromise amendment be considered.' i did, in both cases, jadot and lange. for the vote on such an amendment, the president must obtain parliament's consent, i have done so i.e. he must ask whether there are any objections to the vote on a compromise amendment. if so, parliament shall act by a majority of the votes cast. i have followed exactly this procedure under article 170. i have now voted on the basis of rule 174. there were different interpretations. i referred to rule 174 (3). i have already informed mr bütikofer of this, but you can also have it in writing from me again. (members of the gue/ngl group, the greens/efa group and the efdd group stand up and hold up banners reading 'no ttip'. i am not going to go into detail. thank you, thank you. it is of course always interesting to see from this place how those who are most concerned about the respect of the rules of procedure here interpret them in their own way.
i thank the rapporteur. this is a request for the opening of negotiations and the adjournment of the vote on the draft legislative resolution pursuant to rule 61 (2). i shall now put this motion to the vote. (parliament adopted the request for an adjournment of the vote) the matter is therefore referred back for the start of negotiations on the basis of the mandate.
in the interest of speed, i will do it in english so that our english colleagues can follow.
that concludes the vote.
the explanations of vote will be taken on thursday, 9 july 2015.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, friday 26 june, a kind of black day, was marked by several terrorist attacks. this time, three countries were hit almost simultaneously: france, kuwait and tunisia. these attacks have once again reminded us of the despicable nature of terrorism and especially of those who sponsor and carry it out. our response must be firm and united. on 26 june, the european council made it clear that we must step up our action against these terrorist threats. the fight against terrorism is one of the most important challenges and a top priority for our open and democratic societies. our presidency will make this a top priority. we will build on the work undertaken by our predecessors, taking into account both internal and external aspects of security. the luxembourg presidency will work to ensure that the european union adopts a coherent approach to the fight against terrorism, covering both the internal and external aspects of security, namely a strong and fruitful cooperation between the member states, the commission, the european external action service and the european union coordinator. we have instruments such as europol, eurojust, frontex and ecpol. these instruments must be given the necessary means and resources. in response to the attacks in paris in january, the heads of state or government adopted a declaration on 12 february based on three pillars: ensuring the safety of citizens, preventing radicalisation, protecting values and, finally, cooperating with international partners. the union counter-terrorism coordinator has submitted to the council and the european council a comprehensive report on the implementation of these measures. on 28 april the commission adopted the european programme on security. we discussed it yesterday. the fight against terrorism is one of the main priorities, the strong international dimension of terrorism has been underlined and our action must be on the same international level. on 9 february, the foreign affairs council adopted conclusions on the fight against terrorism, aimed specifically at strengthening cooperation with the countries of north africa, the middle east and the gulf, as well as with turkey and the balkan countries. a number of capacity building projects in the field of counter-terrorism were approved. workshops on this topic have already been held in lebanon and turkey. the eu counter-terrorism coordinator led an inter-service mission to tunisia, following which the high representative proposed a series of support measures to the tunisian prime minister. finally, a strategic communication task force was set up to develop an awareness and communication strategy for the arab world. we must also actively pursue our cooperation with the united nations, nato, the council of europe and other international organisations, as well as our bilateral cooperation with our main partners, such as the united states. on 16 june, the ministers of the interior concluded that tangible progress had been made in recent months. it is essential to prevent radicalisation in our own countries and in our partner countries. how is it possible that young people in our countries, who have been to our schools, are attracted to these terrorist networks that preach unheard-of violence? there is a lot of work to be done on this, and it has to be done on many levels: education, integration, our values. to this end, the centre of excellence, called the european radicalisation awareness network, is about to be launched. other measures should be taken, such as the reinforcement of the application of the schengen framework: documents and persons should be subject to more systematic checks in the relevant databases through a risk-based approach. this approach was finalised on 15 june and will now be implemented. the schengen practical manual for border guards has been updated. a unit for reporting internet content was set up within europol on 1 july to speed up the pooling of resources and to intensify cooperation with the sector. the aim is to reduce the scale and impact of terrorist propaganda and violent and extremist propaganda on the internet, while fully respecting, of course, fundamental rights. the council expects to be able to adopt a decision on the signing, on behalf of the european union, of the additional protocol to the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism, which would make it an offence to travel by foreign terrorist fighters. externally, and in close partnership with countries where the terrorist threat is particularly present, we must help these countries to combat also the social causes of terrorism, such as the frustrating unemployment of young people, which thus becomes a favourable terrain for recruiting new terrorists. tunisia is, unfortunately, an example of this. the luxembourg presidency will be actively involved in this. we will be proposing next week a new cooperation initiative with the maghreb countries on youth employment and vocational training, because i believe that we must tackle at the root the problem of young people tempted by the terrorist adventure, whether in syria or in their own country. i would now like to return to the question of radicalisation. the speed with which this phenomenon is spreading is a cause for concern. in some cases, young people become radicalised in a very short period of time, as little as two months. we will be holding a conference on 19 and 20 october on the subject of rehabilitation and radicalisation in prisons, which often reveal these young terrorists who are ready to act. the treatment of foreign fighters returning to our societies is another issue that we will have to address. commissioner jourová also reoriented funding to include the fight against terrorism in the funding programmes launched this year under the justice sector. we need to strengthen the means to counter the use of the internet and social networks by terrorists to spread their hateful propaganda and to radicalise and recruit young people. we must spread messages to counter terrorist propaganda and launch concerted and well-organised campaigns, including through the media. more needs to be done, in particular, on the decommissioning of firearms and the strengthening of the fight against arms trafficking. we must also redouble our efforts in the field of information exchange. the informal meeting of the ministers of justice and the ministers of the interior in luxembourg tomorrow will include discussions on improving the exchange of information between the intelligence services and the police. as i said yesterday, the implementation of the renewed internal security strategy for the union for 2015-2020 is a priority for the luxembourg presidency and can be a very active and useful instrument in the fight against terrorism. we must act decisively, and above all we must attack the root causes of this scourge, but we must not fall into the trap of those who are waging this terrorist war against our peoples and our states, namely, to weaken our democratic systems and our values. democracies are all the stronger if their action also ensures respect for human rights, which must remain our guiding principle.
member of the commission.– mr president, the appalling attacks perpetrated on friday, 26 june 2015, in france, tunisia, kuwait and somalia demonstrate once again the brutality and inhumanity of terrorists. let me first extend, on behalf of the commission, our condolences to the families of the victims and express our moral support and our sympathy to the countries affected in europe and beyond. i wish to condemn these acts of terror in the strongest terms and reaffirm our determination to address collectively this threat. we need to provide security to our citizens while upholding our values. of course, we face constantly-evolving threats, and the numerous victims of this year’s attacks remind us of this reality. investigations are still being carried out by the competent national authorities. the available information tends to demonstrate that the atrocities committed in saint-quentin-fallavier, in sousse and in kuwait bear the hallmarks of daesh’s despicable ideology of intolerance. their objective is to instil terror. it is also relevant to note that terrorists are focusing on soft targets, such as religious buildings or tourist resorts. this commission, as you know, has been working closely with the member states to identify areas in which the european union can make a real difference in fighting terrorism and radicalisation. we have been working closely with member states to enhance our capacity to address this threat. in april the commission presented the european agenda on security. the agenda places terrorism very high among the future priorities. it embodies a concept of security that encompasses the rule of law and fundamental rights. the agenda sets out a number of actions to counter the threat posed by terrorism. we have started working vigorously on their implementation. let me now focus on some of the ongoing work of high political and practical significance. first, preventing radicalisation remains essential. the radicalisation awareness network centre of excellence, to be launched in september, will take the work of the existing ran further. i consider the work of ran and the whole prevention element of the counter-terrorism policy at eu level to be crucial. secondly, on 1 july 2015, the internet referral unit was established at europol. it will be fully operational within 12 months. the mission of the internet referral unit is to identify terrorist material in different languages and to help secure swift removal. third, by the end of the year, the commission will formally launch an eu-level forum together with the internet industry. this will allow us to discuss how we can reduce the accessibility of online terrorist material and counter terrorist propaganda on the internet and in social media. a first workshop under the forum will be held on 24 july 2015, with experts from the industry and the law enforcement communities. fourthly, the protection of external borders is crucial. with a view to supporting member states in performing enhanced and targeted border checks, the commission finalised – in close cooperation with member states – a first set of common risk indicators. europol and frontex are assisting member states in their implementation, and we have just revised their handbook for border guards. in the framework of the european union’s customs risk management strategy, work is going on to enhance cooperation and information exchange between customs and law enforcement and to detect suspicious movements of goods. fifthly, in order to trace and disrupt terrorist financing, we are working on the strengthening of cooperation between financial intelligence units. let me also stress that the recently-adopted anti-money laundering directive improves the tools to address terrorist financing. sixthly, as stated in the european agenda on security, we also need to better protect our citizens and critical infrastructures from terrorist threats. this work includes practical tools such as the guidance material that my services have recently developed on soft target protection. we are also upgrading the european programme for critical infrastructure protection, which will help to prevent attacks and failures and to improve preparedness and the response to incidents. seventhly, as civil aviation remains the preferred target of terrorists, the commission continues to work to increase aviation security and safety. a joint process is being developed with member states to assess the risks from conflict zones and support the issuing of recommendations to airlines and the public. eighthly, let me mention now eu-pnr, which is an important component of our security agenda. i wish to express my thanks to parliament for your efforts in bringing to completion the eu legislation on pnr. i am confident that we can all continue to work together in such a constructive way so that the co-legislators can agree on a text that adheres to the highest standards of data protection and that is, at the same time, effective. ninthly, the recent attacks illustrate the need for better international coordination and cooperation. the attack in tunisia was extremely brutal and symbolic, as it targeted tourism – a vital economic sector for the country. it was an attack on tunisia’s hospitality and its long-standing and friendly relations with europe. we must stand by our tunisian partners and show solidarity. increasing their security will also contribute to enhancing our security. in the wake of the bardo museum attack, i travelled to tunis and discussed, with my counterparts, how the european union can provide support. we need to work together in tackling the root causes of radicalisation, detecting terrorists’ travel and building security capabilities and capacities. honourable members, we have worked a lot in the past six months and we have made good progress in a number of areas, but the recent attacks remind us that a lot still needs to be done. we owe this to the victims, and we owe it to our citizens and our partners. let us therefore continue, with resolve and determination, in our joint efforts against terrorism and radicalisation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to welcome you, the presidency of the council and the commissioner, ladies and gentlemen. the recent terrorist attacks have shown us that our free societies are vulnerable. they also showed us that in our immediate neighbourhood - in the middle east, towards the african continent - there has never been so much unrest, so much cruelty as today. that is why it is imperative that we help the partners who are willing to work with us to fight terrorists directly on the ground, that we make an attempt - i very much welcome what the commissioner has said here, as do the positions of the council presidency - that we must take the issue of security very seriously and very consistently. consistency also means that we have to take measures that we might wish we didn't have to take, but which are simply necessary in the present day to protect citizens. the pnr system is an important component and a new tool which should be used effectively and in a meaningful way so that it can work transnationally, across europe and perhaps even in combination with third countries. we also need to improve the security of our external borders. but we also have to be aware that it's difficult to detect sleepers who you may have once thought were dangerous three or four years ago, and then stopped watching because you thought they were no longer dangerous. they're people who you think aren't that much different from you and me, and then all of a sudden they become killers. i believe it is essential to combat this phenomenon and to try to get them out of these circles, and above all to break up and destroy the networks of radicalisation. i think it's absolutely essential to shut down this radicalization and the ability of extremists to take people and use them for their own ends, to shut down these networks with all the tools that the rule of law offers.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the terrible events of the last few days and weeks, they really, really depress you, and i feel that way too. but how many times have we said that? how many discussions have we had? nothing has really changed. most of the answers were: more surveillance, more guns, more repression. that didn't lead to the results we wanted. we have never really asked ourselves how we can prevent countries from supporting terrorists in countries where terrorism is practised. how can we prevent this support from being granted? how can democratic processes be developed? i tell you, i keep thinking about when we were in iraq, and the question that we had to ask, of course, was, why is isis so successful? because he has support from certain sections of the population. i will never forget it - i have said this here before - as the bishop of erbil told us: we do not need weapons, but we need support, and that is for reconciliation with the sunnis, and that is in the population, of course not with the terrorists. we're not going to do anything about it. we need an honest discussion about the reasons why young people, and others - and it's not just young people - see their ideals in terrorist acts. we must also talk about the shortcomings of our coexistence - there is something wrong when young people go there and participate in such actions - seriously, really ask ourselves the question: where are our shortcomings, what can we do? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the data on passengers are not used for the purposes of the transport of dangerous goods.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, we were all horrified by the images of tourists slaughtered in such a cowardly manner on the beach in sousse. this was an attack that aimed to sow fear and division. we stand together with tunisia so that the terrorists do not succeed. this was an attack on people, first and foremost, and our sympathy lies with the families and friends of the victims and the tunisian people. it was also, however, an attack on tunisia’s brave choice for democracy, targeting the tourism industry, which is the backbone of tunisia’s economy and which was already facing enormous challenges. the democratic transition accomplished by tunisia since 2011 is unique and, as recognised by the tunisians themselves, fragile as a result of the remaining political and socio-economic challenges still facing the country. courageous reforms are still necessary to consolidate the country’s democratic constitution and to meet the social and economic difficulties of the country, which primarily affect tunisia’s youth. the european union has supported tunisia’s efforts since 2011 and will continue to do so as the government’s major source of external support. i sincerely hope that europeans will continue to visit tunisia and invest in the country. it is our shared responsibility to ensure that they can continue to do so safely and securely. the attacks in sousse and at the bardo museum were not the first signs of the enormous security challenges facing tunisia. since the revolution the european union has been engaged with the country’s authorities in a dialogue about a comprehensive reform of the tunisian security sector in order to ensure that its security institutions can more efficiently provide security to its citizens, in full respect for human rights and international norms, as guaranteed by the new constitution. despite the difficulties inherent in developing cooperation programmes on such a sensitive topic, the current political context of an elected government committed to reform allows us to launch an ambitious programme of support for the sector. we will speed up as fast as possible the implementation of this programme. as part of this wide-ranging reform, the fight against terrorism will be a major element, in particular to reinforce the confidence of the country’s citizens in its security institutions. however, we wish to go even further. along with the eu’s counter-terrorism coordinator, gilles de kerchove, the commission and the european external action service are currently identifying opportunities to act rapidly with all available instruments in order to assist tunisia in strengthening its counter-terrorism strategy, particularly as regards counter-radicalisation, and reinforcing judicial and security mechanisms. high representative/vice-president mogherini sent a letter to the prime minister of tunisia in may with a number of concrete proposals. i also wrote to the minister for development, investment and international cooperation immediately after the sousse attack to assure him of the eu’s steadfast support and to inform him that we intend to accelerate the delivery of certain tranches of support that originally would have been implemented later this year. as i have already said, the tunisian example is a target for terrorists because it is a success. if there is a cause in the world which requires the european union to be united in its support, it is with this country, with its democratic pluralistic government and a society that is committed to the protection of democratic freedoms, pluralism and the rights of women. we need coherent mobilisation of all the resources available to us to defend and strengthen tunisia’s transition to democracy. this means that all of the european institutions and our member states must undertake actions that demonstrate our common resolve. our financial assistance is already substantial: eur 187 million in bilateral assistance for 2015 alone. however, i intend to explore all avenues in order to reinforce this effort. our macro-financial assistance is currently eur 300 million and could be increased over the next few years. that said, tunisia is a country in a particularly unstable region where our potential value added is commensurate with the size of the country and the crucial period of change the country is going through. we need to ensure that our contributions can be appropriately absorbed and remember that providing money for a problem will not, by itself, solve it. our support to tunisia is therefore of prime strategic importance to the european union as a whole and, as such, requires speed and flexibility in some cases, but also careful planning. tunisia has consistently been the main beneficiary of the so-called umbrella funds, which are intended to supplement the financial allocations of selected partners on the basis of their progress towards deep and sustainable democracy. this year, in recognition of tunisia’s great strides in the implementation of agreed reform objectives, we are proposing an additional amount of around eur 70 million in order to address all these positive outcomes so far, but also in the light of recent events we are now examining how best to employ these funds to boost the number of priority initiatives. much remains to be done in order to consolidate tunisia’s young democracy, including integration of the institutions provided for by the country’s constitution, reforms in the judicial and security sectors and launching the process of administrative decentralisation. tunisia’s socio- economic transition demands considerable reforms and integration of a favourable climate for investment, growth and employment. facing all these challenges will require efforts spread over many years, and in all these sectors the european union has the capacity and expertise to provide support for tunisia's efforts. we can also play a central role in enriching the privileged partnership that we have established with tunisia. tunisia wishes to take advantage of the potential offered by our community policies, which can provide additional opportunities for our partner countries. in areas such as education, youth and university exchanges, innovation and research or agriculture, which is a vital sector for the country, together with my fellow commissioners we are exploring opportunities for additional actions, including by placing an emphasis on measures that lead to the creation of jobs. faced with threats such as the threat of terrorism which play on fear and prejudice, our response should be to reinforce the links which bind our peoples and our economies. we should be ambitious and creative in order to ensure that we make a real difference in our support for the people of tunisia.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i would like to thank you very much for your explanations and also for the work that we are doing as the european union, as the commission, in tunisia. i would also like to express my horror at the attacks in sousse and at the bardo museum and express my deepest sympathy to all the families. i think we have every reason to support this young democracy with all the forces at our disposal, and we are doing so, as you have said. i myself had the opportunity to work there as the eu's chief observer back in 2011 and i was there with the european parliament. i see some colleagues who were also involved in the second democratic elections. we have seen that the tunisians want this democracy. no extremists ran in these elections, although there was a very low threshold to be able to run in elections. you didn't run for office. the tunisian people do not want extremism, and we should support them in this endeavour. you have touched on some aspects there. i would like to ask you to take this up with mrs mogherini. as you know, we have a suspended eu border assistance mission between tunisia and libya. she's kind of moved to the tunisian side now, waiting for better days. i think it would be really essential if we could look at whether we could not set up an eu csdp mission on the tunisian side of the border to stop the influx of terrorists and other elements. because the perpetrator of sousse was trained in libya, as were the men who attacked the bardo museum. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i ask that you check whether that is possible.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. mrs. sakorafa, do you really believe that the misery in cuba is a consequence or an exclusive consequence of the u.s. embargo? all other countries in the world are allowed to trade with cuba. they should not be distracted from the damaging effects of socialism in this country by references to the us embargo. don't you agree?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr president. you said we need to promote change through trade. i am not opposed to that on principle. but do you not have the impression that the current rulers are using trade liberalization primarily to put themselves in the pole position, so that after democratization they can then also be at the top of the economic ladder again? we must not first demand a political agenda?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a representative of german industry and a long-standing member of amnesty international, i met fidel castro four times and spent hours talking to him about human rights, especially the abolition of the death penalty. it has been suspended since 2003, as we know, but unfortunately it has not been abolished. but i also argued with him about the dire economic situation, the poor health care of the population and the dilapidated houses in havana. each time he used the excuse that it was because of the american embargo. i have already pointed out that other countries could trade with cuba and that was not the reason. but the american embargo was his standard excuse to stay in power. if the embargo had not been imposed then, the castro brothers would have been out of the window long ago and we would not have political prisoners in our prisons. the european union should therefore put pressure on the united states to lift the embargo once and for all.
mr president, the united states and cuba have decided that it is time for a change. i believe we europeans should not only watch this process unfolding, but engage. despite some criticism, this new diplomatic approach has the support of the american people and will be carried out by many people other than president obama and his administration. the renewal of diplomatic relations is the result of collective leadership, as well as of widespread bipartisan efforts in the us congress, the cuban-american community, civil society, faith-based organisations and the private sector. in addition, there has been a determined willingness to change a policy described by those on both sides of the aisle – including republican senator bob corker from tennessee – as being associated with five decades of failure. i am of the opinion that the european union should welcome this decision and, through diplomatic channels, encourage this transition that is beneficial to the global and regional order and, most importantly, to the cuban people. our support should be directed to encourage democracy in cuba and not in any way to legitimise the authoritarian regime currently in power. the transition in cuba is about – to quote us secretary of state john kerry – ‘unleashing the potential of an americas where countries combine their strengths to advance common interests and values’. i believe europe should not and cannot be indifferent to this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i too believe that we europeans must pursue a constructive policy towards cuba. we should focus on the interests of the people of cuba. we have a lot of experience in the transition from communist dictatorships to democratic societies. i think the cubans want to see democracy. it is not a question of continuing the communist dictatorship on the one hand and the alternative of a reconquista from miami on the other. in between is the approach that people want. we can be of great help in this: in the development of a democratic society that is genuinely cuban, that takes into account its culture and its traditions. cuba does not have a communist one-party tradition that should be continued, nor does the batista regime that should be revived - a democracy like the one that has emerged in europe and in many transitional societies. i share mr henkel's view that if the united states had lifted its sanctions decades ago, for example with the fall of the berlin wall, the regime would certainly not be where it is today and the country would have become democratic earlier. so i hope that with the proposals we are making, we will also be able to put together an agenda, a timetable for a round table with an immediate objective, which is to give the democratic opposition in cuba a perspective to negotiate with the regime when the first democratic elections in cuba - as in many other parts of the world - will take place.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the annual report is a very comprehensive document, listing the eu's work in the field of human rights in its external policy. i think i should like to take this opportunity to thank all the staff at the eda, because a lot of work has been done. compared to other regions of the world, we can already say that the eu is a very active actor and also an actor compared to the other regions that is very consistent in working towards the further development of human rights standards and that also and this has just become important defends human rights achievements in recent years, such as the absolute validity of the universality of human rights. i would, however, like the eu to take a more decisive stand against any human rights relativism and to take more initiatives - for example, in the un human rights council, together with governments of the global south - to counter attacks on universality. this report is a list of the work done. i would ask you to consider whether such an annual report could not be somewhat different. it would be interesting to have an evaluation of the success or failure of certain measures. it would be interesting to know, for example, how the human rights guidelines are applied by eu delegations on the ground and what results they have produced. such an evaluation would certainly be important not only for the report but also for the continuation and correction of one's own work. i said at the outset that the eu is a strong human rights actor in foreign policy. the eu's strength and influence are also gained through its credibility in its own actions. however, this credibility is seriously damaged if we fail to follow through on a policy that is consistent with human rights in all areas, for example in our eu border and refugee policy, for example in our policy on combating terrorism. last but not least, credibility is also shown by strengthening human rights work within the institution itself, within the ead itself. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. yes, mainstreaming is important, but mainstreaming of human rights can only succeed if there is also a strong human rights directorate that can also comply with the technical requirements.
the commission has already done so. we're here today to talk about human rights. the core of human rights is human dignity. the dignity of the human person is universal, inviolable, indivisible and is linked to the person. the eu wants to guarantee human rights, and that is a good thing. however, it is moving further and further away from these human rights. human dignity and therefore human rights are not political, and they are not ideological. they're not from politics, they were there before politics. and that's why politics cannot change human rights. but that is exactly what the eu believes it can do - here in parliament, in the council and also in the commission. mrs post has just spoken of gender mainstreaming in the context of human rights. we serve special interests and make policy in the name of human rights. if we return to the roots of human rights, we will preserve the dignity of the human person! in many parts of the world, that would be a big win.
i have to say, madam president, i do not share the view of the majority of this house. but since that is not the subject of this report, i shall not go into it. i think that we cannot, of course, cover all the aspects in a short time. i would therefore like to focus once again on the keyword tunisia, which we have already discussed. i had suggested that we consider whether we might convert our suspended eu border assistance mission tunisia-libya into a border protection support mission directly for the tunisian side, in order to stop the infiltration of terrorists from libya in the first place. libya is my other keyword. i think we all know what the situation was in the phase of the fall of gaddafi. it was right, in my view, that we intervened not as the eu but as some member states. i still believe that we prevented a real massacre in benghazi. but and this is the big but after that, it was not desirable that we have become active on the ground with our proven programs for example, reform of the security sector. i think we could have done that well, partly because at least the libyans had money, and in return we could have done, among other things, security sector reform. that didn't happen. we know what the situation is now, and that is why i think it is right that we support the efforts of the united nations, but also the efforts of algeria and morocco to strengthen the internal libyan dialogue. and after that, if it does succeed, if we hope to have a unity government in libya soon, then we should come back with the offers and offer the libyans, among other things, a reform of the security sector, but also other things to make state building possible. this is the key to our being able to end the flow of refugees across libya.
mr president, commissioner hahn, you are very well aware of the problems we face. close cooperation with the arab states with whom? egypt might be, jordan might be. but what else? religion certainly plays a role. islam is divided into sunni, shi'a and many sects. a terrorist threat, but not a real conversation partner. israel, the only democratic state in the middle east, the only credible partner. but europe has a serious image problem in israel, because we only face this reliable country with sanctions. iran, on the other hand, exports terrorist structures to latin america, africa, the middle east, of course, asia. and iran is now going to be very rich when the sanctions are lifted. there are scientists here. is iran a reliable partner in the nuclear energy field? no support from any partner who is not absolutely reliable and credible! that should be our standard. iran wants the atomic bomb. who's to say? we should take the iranians seriously. they're capable of anything. they want to destroy the state of israel and with it the jewish people. this is non-negotiable. this is in no way negotiable, no matter which state in the middle east makes this a basic demand against israel.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's discussion paper on the reorientation of the neighbourhood policy has raised some very good questions, such as the question of taking into account the social conditions and interests of the partner countries or the question of involving the neighbours of the neighbours. the paper also indirectly acknowledges the failure of the current approach to eu policy in the immediate neighbourhood in both directions, to the south and to the east. there is no doubt that there is a bit of realpolitik in the question, but the afet committee has refused to give a definitive answer to it, contrary to the point of departure of the rapporteur in the working document of mr kukan, as if the majority of the committee did not consider the failure of the neighbourhood policy to date to be sufficient or not enough and wanted to continue with the beloved routine of standard reports and debates. i am in favour of linking the concrete social conditions of the partners with the developments there, which are accompanied by enormous social and cultural challenges. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the continued widespread corruption which is eroding the economic and social cohesion of the states and further eroding the last remaining trust of the people in state structures, as well as the other human rights violations, require a fundamental change in the strategy of the european neighbourhood policy. the situation in and around ukraine, the frozen conflicts in transnistria, abkhazia and nagorno-karabakh, for example, are examples in the east. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national and regional authorities responsible for the implementation of the acquis. i am also in favour of the approach of balancing interests with neighbouring countries as the basis of the enp and of including their neighbours. this would in turn lead us back to the international legal norms of cooperation agreed in the helsinki final act, in their complexity of political, economic, cultural and human rights dimensions. in response to your questions in the consultation, commissioner, i believe that we should also make a determined move towards a csce or osce 2.0 in the framework of the enp and put forward constructive and mutually acceptable proposals to that end. why not make a new start? neighbourhood policy must be part of the eu's external action, which is guided by the need to cooperate for mutual benefit and not by the logic of a single internal market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr tajani, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would also like to begin by thanking my colleague and friend, mr eduard kukan, for this excellent report. like many of my predecessors, i believe that the european union's neighbourhood policy does not yet meet the ambitious requirements of article 8 of the treaty. at the same time, the problems at the borders of the european union show how right and at the same time important it is to continue to work towards a good and, above all, peaceful neighbourhood. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. firstly, the immediate neighbourhood of the european union must remain a strategic focus of the european union's foreign policy in our own interests. secondly, cooperation with civil society in the neighbourhood partner countries is of central importance, as their representatives and organisations are instrumental in building democratic structures and the rule of law. thirdly, each country needs a tailor-made approach. not all the enp partner countries want to or can approach the european union at the same speed and in the same policy areas. this report by mr kukan makes a valuable contribution to ensuring that the european neighbourhood policy can continue to support democracy and the rule of law in our partner countries.
i have to say, madam president, the report refers to the commission's 2013 proposal no 9/43. as a nuclear physicist, i have been called on several occasions to participate in the approval process of nuclear installations. so i know from experience what i'm talking about. the report says that after a nuclear accident, 626 becquerels of radioactivity may be present in infant formulae. for comparison, before chernobyl, milk for adults had to be thrown away if it contained more than 500 becquerels. now they're estimating 626 becquerels for newborn babies. ladies and gentlemen, this report is an incitement to murder. such figures are not necessary for infant feeding. there are other ways of providing food. i am not going to change my mind: the commission's proposal with these values is a scandal!
rapporteur.– madam president, there are two ways to look at this copyright evaluation report. on the one hand, it is a great step forward. it recognises that users of copyrighted works have rights – a foreign concept to the current copyright directive. according to the directive, rights holders have rights and users have exceptions to those rights. these exceptions are optional to the member states. they can simply be disabled by a contract or by technological restrictions. circumventing those restrictions is illegal, even for legitimate purposes. so it is illegal to make a book that has a technological lock available to a blind person, but the terms of service that simply erase an exception to copyright are completely legal. the copyright directive, so far, protects digital locks more than it protects the people. this report calls for a clear set of european consumers’ rights. it states that copyright exceptions must not be overridden by a contract, and that you cannot charge a levy for private copying on the one hand, but then, on the other hand, use technology that makes private copying impossible. this report calls for interoperability and cross-border access, so you should be able to buy and to use works on any device or in any country. it sides with the right to education and with allowing libraries, museums and archives to do their jobs in the digital world and to make our shared cultural heritage accessible to anybody, regardless of their social status. but, at the same time, this report is also a tragically-missed opportunity. just a year ago, thousands of europeans participated in a public consultation on copyright, and they expressed how they come into daily conflict with a law that is unfit for the digital age. then commissioner kroes recognised that copyright must be radically reformed so that it would not become irrelevant. president juncker announced his goal to tear down national silos in copyright, and commissioner ansip boldly took on geo-blocking. the message was clear: now is the time to act decisively. not from this parliament. parliament recognises, in the report, that 28 different copyright laws are too complicated, but still it considers our cultures to be so different that we cannot possibly agree on simple things like the fact that drawing a caricature should not require permission, a rights holder should not forbid a journalist from quoting a work in order to criticise it, or public pictures of public space should remain royalty—free. this parliament is at its best when it is the voice of the people. it has rejected the acta treaty because the people we represent embrace the internet as an integral part of their reality. with copyright, you have seen tens of thousands of your young people on the streets opposing acta and holding signs saying ‘this video is not available in your country’. you have had thousands of responses to the consultation on copyright asking for more europe in copyright law. you have had half a million petitioners demanding freedom of panorama. now you have the chance to take up this call and to update copyright law to the digital age. personally, i wonder if this report, as it stands, is really the best that we can do if this is what european leadership looks like. i also hope that you, my colleagues, will wonder why people considered it necessary to form a party that is solely based on reforming copyright, to give it the ridiculous name of the pirate party and to elect me here to the european parliament to tell you that copyright reform is urgently needed. i am hoping that, when the reform from the commission comes, my colleagues will be bolder in demanding european copyright and common rules for everybody. i also hope that we can make sure that parliament is not just following the commission proposal but is also a decisive player in making sure that copyright is fit for the digital age and understandable to ordinary people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in an open society, prohibitions should be the exception. copyright law follows an opposite logic. the phrase "all rights reserved" actually means: everything is forbidden that is not exceptionally allowed. the use of photographs, videos and images permanently displayed in public places should continue to be possible without restrictions. the copyright extremism has to be stopped. the freedom of panorama must be guaranteed. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's cultural heritage.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report could be entitled: free access and fair remuneration. the report has succeeded in striking a balance between the interests of cultural professionals in fair remuneration and the free access of internet users to online services. in the digital age, artists must be able to make a living from their work, and we do not want to see any form of criminalisation of internet users. other important findings of the report are: the rights of cultural creators are strengthened in relation to other rights holders. the commission is proposing to set up a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of copyright and related rights. exceptions are made for educational purposes and also for libraries. the issue of freedom of panorama has recently been discussed in the public sphere. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these widespread reports are now dissolving into complacency. the european parliament must send a clear message today: freedom of panorama is not being compromised. we should therefore vote against the corresponding paragraph 46. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european copyright directive was adopted in 2001. we need to modernise copyright law to meet the requirements of the cross-border digital single market. i think it is important to strike a fair and reasonable balance between the interests of users and rights holders. that's what copyright is all about. copyright must not only be seen from the perspective of the consumer, but also from the perspective of the creative work. i therefore ask you again today, ladies and gentlemen, to support amendment no 1. it does not require - i would like to emphasize this again - that a european right to protection of performance be introduced. the commission has not yet received the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. let me read the amendment again. it invites the commission to 'examine how quality journalism can be maintained in the digital age and to come forward with a proposal to ensure media diversity, in particular taking into account the important role played by journalists, authors and media service providers such as press publishers'. for me, media diversity is not just about everyone being able to express their opinions and communicate. i appreciate the work of the journalists, the editors, the writers, even those who do the research, who sort for their readers, who categorize, who comment. that's what i call quality journalism. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i have tabled this amendment and i would be very pleased if you could support it in the vote this afternoon. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8))
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs niebler, can you explain why your amendment calls for a proposal from the commission at the last minute, after we in the legal affairs committee - with your cooperation too - have drawn up a compromise proposal on this very subject, which the epp has also agreed to, and why your amendment should now be inserted in the report immediately after this compromise? do you not see that this calls into question the compromise we reached in the legal affairs committee and that it puts the report in jeopardy?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking, mrs reda. first of all, i'm glad you're speaking in your native language today and not just english. it shows you have a taste for culture. to answer your question, quality journalism, that term doesn't appear in your entire report. i therefore think that this amendment can be supported again. it does not contradict anything in your report, but it complements what i am trying to do, which is to give a special importance to quality journalism and to ask the commission to give the commission a mandate on how to solve this problem in a simple and constructive way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the digital challenge also requires adaptations in copyright law, and we must face them, but at the same time take advantage of the opportunities that arise. we should therefore also work to improve the crossborder portability of content for consumers, to better address the issue of geo-blocking in the various areas, but also in a way that is tailored to the needs of industries or citizens. we have had - this has already been mentioned by colleagues - in the last few days the excitement about freedom of panorama, that it is in danger - it is not so, this has already been discussed sufficiently. but we should ensure that the freedom of panorama - and with it we can take the first step today - is preserved, as it is in germany or in the other member states, and perhaps we will vote on the improvements in the future. but, and this is very crucial, we must also be equally enthusiastic and determined to ensure that the rights of artists, authors, creators and users are protected in the digital age. the text we are voting on today is a more or less balanced solution which takes into account the interests of both the artists and the consumers. we must therefore continue to work towards a european legal system and ensure that copyright is well designed. i'm sure it's in good hands.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i would like to thank you very much for your dedicated speeches, which demonstrate your expertise and show that you are well-versed in copyright matters. i find that we have a large majority here among the members who encourage us. it's time to modernize copyright. there was hardly a word message that said, "keep your fingers off, don't get active". i think the option of not making a proposal would be the worst option. secondly, we want to take account in our copyright package of technological developments and market changes and of the interests of citizens and consumers. thirdly, we are trying to make a balanced proposal. the balance is crucial - the balance, which was also reflected in your speeches - between the legitimate interests of those who create intellectual works, who write, who research, who compose, who have invested their time and their skills in intellectual work, and on the other hand a wide access, if possible no border or if possible narrow borders, which are necessary. if you want to deviate from the principle of portability and open access across europe, you have to - and i am one of them - provide evidence, you have to prove that this is necessary in the interests of copyright. i mentioned the film sector and the sports sector for that. we have received suggestions that we should analyse platforms to decide whether to include new providers in our regulatory framework. we are also planning to do this. our goal is to prevent piracy as much as possible. the subject of freedom of panorama was a relatively wide one, a pure phantom, it seems to me. that's why we shouldn't have phantom debates. the commission did not propose to restrict freedom of panorama. it seems to have been a misunderstood idea in a parliamentary committee, but no one has taken up the idea today. we could therefore say to the public that there was a misunderstanding in the committee, and that it was never the will of a number of members. we do not want to restrict the existing regulations. freedom of panorama will be preserved in the future on the basis of national laws and will not be restricted at european level. what's left is a clever marketing move by wikipedia, and they're getting it. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank all my colleagues for their contributions to this very vibrant and balanced debate. i would especially like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their very hard and continuous work over the several months that we have been working on this report. i also greatly appreciate the commitment from the commission to take the results of the report into account. even though it is only an evaluation of the status quo of the copyright directive, the public attention to this debate and to the negotiations shows that europeans are anxiously waiting for an ambitious copyright reform. i am also very glad to hear the commissioner’s comments that photos are an extension of vision and that freedom of panorama must be preserved. i think the great public support freedom of panorama. even though the debate has been blown a bit out of proportion, it does show that we need a new balance in copyright, that we should not hold onto ideas that have already failed the practice test, and that exceptions and limitations are not harmful to authors. they quite often give a necessary breathing space for new creation to take place, and they give aspiring authors the necessary access to culture and education. not everybody in the future will be a victor hugo, but victor hugo – the initiator of the berne convention himself – famously said, and i quote, ‘literature is the secretion of civilisation, poetry of the ideal. that is why literature is one of the wants of societies ... that is why there must be a vast public literary domain. that is why all poets, all philosophers, all thinkers, all the producers of the greatness of the mind must be translated, commented on, published, printed, reprinted, stereotyped, distributed, explained, recited, spread abroad, given to all, given cheaply, given at cost price, given for nothing’.
madam president, i want first of all to say thank you in three directions: thanks to the original polish originators of the concept; thanks to the people who work within the european endowment for democracy (eed) to make it function; and, by no means least, thanks to our rapporteur mr grzyb, who has cooperated with all of us to put forward a very adequate and positive report. the flexible instrument that the eed provides to the european union is of particular importance in a situation where an increasing number of countries is making it even more difficult for civil society organisations and non-governmental organisations to play the vital role that they should play in a democratic society. through the eed we can support those organisations, and that is very important for the promotion of democracy. lastly, i would add my voice to those colleagues who are calling upon member states to help finance ... (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission.– madam president, it gives me great pleasure on behalf of the vice-president/high representative, federica mogherini, to thank the rapporteur and everybody else who has been involved for the important work they have been doing in evaluating the activities of the european endowment for democracy (eed). it is very good to see that there is broad support across the plenary for the important work that the eed does and that the partnership we have with parliament is very important: the work members do on the board and the way they take an active role in debating and spreading the work of the eed. i share the view expressed in the report that the endowment plays a very important role by supporting democracy in our neighbourhood, and it has been a useful complement to the existing eu instruments. the eed has been proved, as you say in your evaluation, to be able to provide fast and flexible support in restrictive and repressive environments where often the eu cannot act efficiently to reach human rights defenders. the eed can also quickly deliver emergency funding and provide small grants as well as core and bridging funding to new democratic actors with limited capacity to apply for larger eu grants. i also believe that, whilst coordination and complementarity is key, the eed must remain independent and enjoy the latitude which is necessary to address the most challenging circumstances. in the report you make a number of suggestions regarding the enp review. let me assure you that the eed has been closely involved in discussions around the review of the neighbourhood policy and it has been given the opportunity to submit very concrete and pertinent recommendations based on feedback from the grantees. this has greatly contributed to ensuring that civil society in our neighbourhood has followed, and has been able to feed into, that debate. taking into account the positive results of the eed evaluation and also the recommendation of your report to the european external action service and the commission, we remain fully committed to supporting the work. let me give you the good news that the commission has just adopted a decision to grant an additional eur 12 million for the next two years, 2016 to 2018. that is a considerable increase compared with the previous grant. let me conclude by saying that it is important that the eed focuses on being complementary to the other instruments and tools to fund beneficiaries that are not eligible for other eu funding. i am very pleased with the pragmatic and very operational approach adopted by the eed and its focus on demand—driven assistance. we will continue to disseminate information about the eed among our staff and to use it to complement the support offered through the eu instrument. so thank you to the rapporteur and we are looking forward to continued good cooperation on this.
mrs. auken, i just got my insurance back. the president said that something like this cannot be overlooked and that it is being considered and prepared. we're not doing this now.
- i'm not sure. if you'd listened to me, you'd know why. you can talk to me in private later. i will not take any more comments on this subject and will interrupt anyone who speaks on this subject again.
we shall begin with the remaining explanations of vote from yesterday and then proceed to today's explanations of vote.
mr rübig, i have to ask you a question. two hours is not the number i'm familiar with. it's scheduled for about an hour and a half. it is not taken into account that we have already lost four minutes.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr fox! i'll take care of your application. but i would like to reject once and for all and in every way that the services are responsible for this planning. firstly, the agenda is set by the conference of presidents and by you. secondly, you can read this in today's voting list: the length of the votes is largely determined by the number of separate votes requested by the political groups. since we do not employ clairvoyants in the services, it is not possible to plan in advance how many separate votes and individual votes will be requested. so the whole thing, the length of the vote, is affected by the house. you can criticize the administration, but you can't do unplanned administrative bashing! (parliament rejected the request for an adjournment of the vote)
i would like to thank mr guerrero. i assume that you have made this request on behalf of your group. the conditions of article 190 (1) are then fulfilled and i shall allow a statement in favour and a statement against the motion.
i would like to thank mr sarvamaa. you've got something good!
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. thank you all. (applause from the centre) we've now done it in 84 minutes. and if we had saved the four minutes of the riot, we would have come out at 80 minutes.
oral explanations of vote
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i voted against this motion yesterday for the simple reason that the improvements to the so-called arbitration procedures do not really solve the problem. the fact is that the so-called arbitrators are not bound by any law, but only by their common sense. this is a throwback to what we had in the middle ages. this is a lawless state. even in the middle ages, we had law and order. the second point is that in so-called regulatory cooperation we are giving the international corporations a very important say in the drafting of new laws. this is also a major undermining of democracy. as a democrat and as a representative of the rule of law, i cannot agree to such a proposal.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i abstained today from voting on the non-legislative own-initiative report containing the european parliament's recommendations to the commission on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) because i consider the debate on this subject to be misleading in part: the debate, which was blown up by others, gave the impression that the european parliament was thereby setting aside facts in favour of a vote on ttip or even voting definitively against ttip. the report contains some interesting and necessary critical elements, but it is rather counterproductive at the moment.
in writing. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is creating more free trade. this is simply 'widening markets' and leads to a wider choice of products, more competition, higher productivity and lower prices. the theoretical risks and dangers of ttip were discussed at length in the committee. the 'lange report' which we are voting on is drawing red lines against them in an appropriate way. one of these guidelines is to abolish the old-style isds and to create a new system of investor protection. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the taxation of savings income. this amendment would have emphasised the fiscal autonomy of the member states. however, this own-initiative report is not legally binding. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is creating more free trade. this is simply 'widening markets' and leads to a wider choice of products, more competition, higher productivity and lower prices. the theoretical risks and dangers of ttip were discussed at length in the committee. the lange report, which we have voted on, draws appropriate red lines against them. one of these guidelines is to abolish the old-style isds and to create a new system of investor protection. as the report calls for no special rights for foreign investors, it ensures that they cannot turn to international arbitration. in approving this report, i intend to support the ttip process in a constructive way, without anticipating a decision on the final agreement.
in writing. ‒ i welcome in principle the work on a resolution by the representation of european citizens on the ongoing ttip negotiations. this gives the european parliament the opportunity to give the eu commission clear guidelines for the further negotiations. many of the points in the resolution are worthy of support: compliance with ilo core labour standards is just one of them. i have nevertheless made my approval of the resolution conditional on the rejection of compromise motion no 117. the compromise reached does not go far enough for me and leaves too much room for interpretation. the national legal systems in both the us and europe are fully adequate for investment disputes. i am opposed to a new system which does not explicitly exclude all forms of arbitration. i therefore voted against the whole resolution.
in writing. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is creating more free trade. this is simply 'widening markets' and leads to a wider choice of products, more competition, higher productivity and lower prices. the theoretical risks and dangers of ttip were discussed at length in the committee. the 'lange report' which we are voting on is drawing red lines against them in an appropriate way. one of these guidelines is to abolish the old-style isds and to create a new system of investor protection. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a new regulation on the taxation of savings income. this amendment would have emphasised the fiscal autonomy of the member states. however, this own-initiative report is not legally binding. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) is creating more free trade. free trade creates more competition, lower prices and a better choice. but i also believe that it will lead to structural change and difficulties in adapting. the theoretical risks and dangers of ttip were discussed at length in the committee. the lange report, which we have voted on, draws appropriate red lines against them. one of these guidelines is to abolish the old-style isds and to create a new system of investor protection. the agreement on this report is intended to provide a critical but constructive follow-up to the ttip process without prejudging a decision on the final agreement. the report by mr van der waal is not legally binding. only when a final version is available can a meaningful decision be made.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). i'm very much in favour of free trade. but that does not require an agreement. it is not enough to have a single currency. that would be good for consumers. in terms of mutual investment, i see the european union and the united states as the part of the world where states respect investors' property rights the most. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of investments are applied in a uniform manner in all member states. i also see more light than shadow in regulatory harmonization. it is a consolidation of high regulatory standards to the particular benefit of large companies. but the us, like the eu, needs less regulation to allow more competition - especially from small and medium-sized enterprises - to revive the bureaucratically paralysed economy.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on the occasion of croatia's accession to the eu, because it is a technical act on the occasion of croatia's accession to the eu, which also strengthens relations with the eu's neighbour macedonia.
in writing. ‒ parliament's resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union. this is a purely technical measure in view of the accession of croatia to the eu in july 2013.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the protocol to the stabilisation and association agreement with serbia on the occasion of croatia's accession to the eu, because it is a technical act on the occasion of croatia's accession to the eu, which also strengthens relations with serbia.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today to extend the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with india because i am genuinely interested in exchanging research and education with other regions of the world.
in writing. as someone who has lived in india for many years and is very connected to it, i have observed the country for decades. i have often said that the next decade will be the indian decade. i had to correct myself often. for the first time, my repeated prediction seems to be confirmed. under modi, the country is implementing bold reforms and liberalizing the economy. that is why i voted to extend the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have voted with my group in favour of the parliament's resolution on the draft council decision on the extension of the agreement on scientific and technical cooperation between the european community and the government of the republic of india. the framework conditions for eu-india cooperation in research and innovation are relatively satisfactory, resulting in a stable and reliable climate for cooperation. the overall success of eu-india cooperation is thus ensured. building on the successful cooperation so far, india is also considered as a partner for cooperation in the first horizon 2020 work programme (2014-2015). the thematic focus is on cooperation with indian researchers in areas such as water, nanotechnology and agriculture, which are supported.
written explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ the commission's objective of promoting transparency and greater involvement of shareholders is generally welcomed. the text now adopted by the plenary represents a considerable improvement on the report adopted by the committee. the main positive aspects are the freedom of action granted to the member states, for example in the regulatory framework for remuneration policy or in transactions with related companies, and the more flexible exercise of control by shareholders, which is considered more feasible than a rigid focus on the annual general meeting. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide information on the use of the euro in their national currency. the call for greater involvement of employees and civil society in corporate governance, and for these to be aligned with undefined environmental and social policy objectives, also dilutes the shareholder-oriented draft law. i was therefore unable to agree to the draft report. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ the cdu/csu group in the epp group voted against country-by-country reporting in today's vote on the sergio cofferati report. we are not opposed to country-specific reporting in principle. for example, we welcome the provisions in the accounting directive (2013/34/eu), which is to be evaluated by the eu commission by 2018, and the directive on the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms (crd iv, 2013/36/eu). however, before these provisions are extended to other sectors, we call for a thorough impact assessment by the eu commission. in addition, developments in country-by-country reporting in the oecd action plan against the cutting of profits and shifting of profits of multinational enterprises (beps) need to be taken into account in order to ensure a level playing field. in addition, it is essential that smes and medium-sized enterprises are exempted from additional reporting burdens.
in writing. ‒ the commission's objective of promoting transparency and greater involvement of shareholders is generally welcomed. the text now adopted by the plenary represents a considerable improvement on the report adopted in committee. the main positive aspects are the freedom of action granted to the member states, for example in the regulatory framework for remuneration policy or in transactions with related companies, and the more flexible exercise of control by shareholders, which is considered more feasible than a rigid focus on the annual general meeting. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be required to provide information on the use of the euro in their national currency. the call for greater involvement of employees and civil society in corporate governance, and for these to be geared towards undefined environmental and social policy objectives, also dilutes the shareholder-oriented draft directive. i was therefore unable to agree to the draft report. i abstained from the vote.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the parliament's resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2007/36/ec with regard to the promotion of long-term shareholder involvement and directive 2013/34/eu as regards certain elements of the corporate governance statement. the left-wing majority of parliament has voted in favour of implementing country-specific reporting. this means that companies are forced to include information intended for the tax office in the information to their shareholders and thus to publish it. it's hard for many people to imagine today, but even a publicly traded company is not public property, it's private property. country-specific reporting is not a help for shareholders, but serves the false reflex that companies are not obliged to their owners, but to the public. the tax authorities are entitled to collect information relevant to tax matters and are obliged to keep it confidential. anything beyond that is a breach of private property and does not belong in an economic system that calls itself a market economy.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ there was an urgent need to strengthen eu emissions trading. i therefore voted in favour of the establishment and use of a market stability reserve for the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. the market stability mechanism is intended to counteract the decline in prices and oversupply of emission allowances by introducing it on 1 january 2019. this should make investments in climate-friendly technologies worthwhile in the future. the decision also prevents companies from moving to regions outside the eu with lower environmental standards, by protecting energy-intensive companies that are state-of-the-art and by providing free certificates. this is an important approach to maintaining europe as an industrial location.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the market stability reserve for the eu greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme. europe has taken the lead in emissions trading globally. but that also means that we have to be prepared to develop this instrument.
in writing. ‒ yesterday we voted on the market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system. the european commission has proposed to reform the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) by introducing a market stability reserve (msr) from 2021. the msr allows the commission to issue or refuse additional co2 allowances in order to protect the eu ets from cyclical fluctuations and to cancel the excess supply of allowances that has accumulated in recent years. however, european industries have sounded the alarm, pointing to the competitiveness, deindustrialisation of europe and the impact of the ukrainian crisis, which is turning attention to the security of energy supply. however, in october 2014, eu leaders reached an agreement on the 2030 climate and energy package. they expressly support the commission's proposal on msr and that additional co2 allowances be issued beyond 2020 for the industrial sectors that are particularly affected by the shift of co2 emissions. the report includes the following compromises: (i) entry into force in 2019; (ii) co2 emissions shifting: the commission is to draw up a proposal; (iii) innovation fund: an additional fund to support breakthrough technologies is to be set up. that is why i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ yesterday we voted on the market stability reserve for the eu's greenhouse gas emissions trading system. the european commission has proposed to reform the eu emissions trading system (eu ets) by introducing a market stability reserve (msr) from 2021. the msr allows the commission to issue or refuse additional co2 allowances in order to protect the eu ets from cyclical fluctuations and to cancel the excess supply of allowances that has accumulated in recent years. however, european industries have sounded the alarm, pointing to the competitiveness, deindustrialisation of europe and the impact of the ukrainian crisis, which is turning attention to the security of energy supply. however, in october 2014, eu leaders reached an agreement on the 2030 climate and energy package. they expressly support the commission's proposal on the market stability reserve (msr) and that additional co2 allowances be issued beyond 2020 for those industrial sectors that are particularly affected by the shift of co2 emissions. the report includes the following compromises: (i) entry into force in 2019; (ii) co2 emissions shifting: the commission is to draw up a proposal; (iii) innovation fund: an additional fund to support breakthrough technologies is to be set up. that is why i voted for it.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur responsible for my group, i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 2008/94/ec, 2009/38/ec, 2002/14/ec, 98/59/ec and 2001/23/ec as regards seafarers. this dossier is making valuable progress towards greater rights and safeguards for workers at sea. i thank the european commission and the rapporteurs of the other groups for the good and constructive cooperation.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on scientific and technological cooperation with switzerland: horizon 2020 and iter activities, because i am interested in further funding of these important research projects and the recognition of foreign workers from croatia remains unaffected for the time being.
in writing. ‒ parliament's resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technical cooperation between the european union and the european atomic energy community and the swiss confederation on the association of the swiss confederation to the framework programme for research and innovation 'horizon 2020' and the european atomic energy community research and training programme complementing 'horizon 2020' and on the participation of the swiss confederation in the iter activities of 'fusion for energy'. the cor supports the call for cooperation with switzerland under the horizon 2020 programme. eu-swiss cooperation in science is not in breach of subsidiarity and deserves support. under the horizon 2020 programme, switzerland will have the opportunity to participate in scientific projects. in addition, switzerland will be able to participate as an associated country in the euratom programme and the iter project.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states today, because, as amended by amendments, it sets out some priorities which clearly fall within national competence. the report also overlooks an important area: the domestic work and educational performance of parents. here i wish for new accents and new fairness through an educational content.
in writing. ‒ the agea report makes a number of proposals for member states' labour market policies in the context of the european semester. there are some positive signals, such as amendment no 10, which denies the eu the power to create a union-wide minimum wage, or amendment no 21, which proposes a reduction in red tape for smes. unfortunately, the report also contains many proposals for centralisation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. in a monetary union, however, only labour market flexibility can replace the lack of a currency devaluation mechanism. the proposals therefore risk making labour markets more inflexible and shocks more severe. for this reason, the paper is not target-oriented.
in writing. ‒ the agea report makes a number of proposals for member states' labour market policies in the context of the european semester. there are some positive signals, such as amendment no 10, which denies the eu the power to create a union-wide minimum wage, or amendment no 21, which proposes a reduction in red tape for smes. unfortunately, the report also contains many proposals for centralisation and collectivisation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. in a monetary union, however, only labour market flexibility can replace the lack of a currency devaluation mechanism. the proposals therefore risk making labour markets more inflexible and shocks more severe. for this reason, the paper is not target-oriented.
in writing. ‒ the agea report makes a number of proposals for member states' labour market policies in the context of the european semester. there are some positive signals, such as amendment no 10, which denies the eu the power to create a union-wide minimum wage, or amendment no 21, which proposes a reduction in red tape for smes. unfortunately, the report also contains many proposals for centralisation and collectivisation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european company. in a monetary union, however, only labour market flexibility can replace the lack of a currency devaluation mechanism. the proposals therefore risk making labour markets more inflexible and shocks more severe. the report is therefore not useful.
in writing. ‒ parliament resolution on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states the resolution violates the principle of subsidiarity in many ways.
written explanations of vote
oral explanations of vote
mr president, i have supported this proposal, which gives a mandate for further negotiations on the shape of the european union's budget for next year. i am not personally in favour of increasing the budget of the european union. i think countries really need to consider how much to create and how big the central budget should be. on the other hand, in the situation we are in, with the european union's southern border at risk, i very much welcome the fact that the chapter on security and citizenship is being lifted, so that more money goes into the european union's immigration policy. more money will also go, i hope, to the defense of the southern border. it's not just my view, it's also the debate in the czech republic, when citizens ask us what the european union will do to make the southern border of the european union more guarded, to get at least a little closer to the australian model.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the mandate for the trilogue on the draft budget for 2016 because it provides, after intensive negotiations, an important basis and the necessary framework to allow the representatives of the european parliament to negotiate effectively with the council.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, the ecr group welcomes the fact that the european commission has presented, for the first time in a long time, a draft budget for the coming year which takes into account issues such as efficiency and economy. however, this proposal is still far from the ideas of the group of the european people's party. the mandate for a trilogue between the three eu institutions - parliament, council and commission - negotiated for the budgetary procedure does not lead to the objectives of a budget that is sustainably balanced, efficient and economical. in particular, the problem of the large gap between commitments and disbursements is further emphasized by this mandate. that's why i turned it down.
in writing. ‒ firstly, i welcome the fact that the european commission has presented, for the first time in a long time, a draft budget for the coming year which takes into account issues such as efficiency and economy. however, this draft is still far from my ideas. the mandate for a trilogue between the three eu institutions - parliament, council and commission - negotiated for the budgetary procedure does not lead to the objectives of a budget that is sustainably balanced, efficient and economical. in particular, the problem of the large gap between commitments and disbursements is further emphasized by this mandate. that is why i reject this mandate.
in writing. ‒ 2016 budget - mandate for trilogue on the one hand, the ecr group welcomes the fact that the eu commission has presented, for the first time in a long time, a draft budget for the coming year which takes into account issues such as efficiency and economy. however, this proposal is still far from the ideas of the group of the european people's party. the mandate for a trilogue between the three eu institutions - parliament, council and commission - negotiated for the budgetary procedure does not lead to the objectives of a budget that is sustainably balanced, efficient and economical. in particular, the problem of the large gap between commitments and disbursements is further emphasized by this mandate. the committee on budgets has therefore rejected this mandate.
in writing. ‒ on the one hand, the ecr group welcomes the fact that the european commission has presented, for the first time in a long time, a draft budget for the coming year which takes into account issues such as efficiency and economy. however, this proposal is still far from the ideas of the group of the european people's party. the mandate for a trilogue between the three eu institutions - parliament, council and commission - negotiated for the budgetary procedure does not lead to the objectives of a budget that is sustainably balanced, efficient and economical. in particular, the problem of the large gap between commitments and disbursements is further emphasized by this mandate. the committee on budgets has therefore rejected this mandate.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the green jobs initiative: harnessing the potential of the green economy to create jobs today because it is partly exaggerated, wrongly motivated and breaks subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the green employment initiative: harnessing the potential of the green economy for job creation. it is based on the erroneous assumption that man-made climate change is the cause of climate change and that its effects must be addressed through policy.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ as the coordinator of my group in the acp delegation, i voted today for the report on tax evasion and tax avoidance as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries, because i believe that this issue is very important. an estimated €1 trillion is lost annually in emerging markets through tax fraud. we need functioning tax offices in these countries. that is why i am calling for, among other things, a dedicated program called devetax 2020 to create at least 2020 new finance offices in african states by 2020.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the resolution on 'tax evasion and tax avoidance as challenges to governance, social protection and development in developing countries'. the report was supposed to address alleged tax problems in developing countries. yet, it is used as a pretext to criticize the tax policies of developed countries. i was the shadow rapporteur for my group on the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. none of my suggestions for a sound tax policy were included in the opinion. the committee and parliament are wrong to believe that tax competition has an adverse effect on developing countries and want to restrict it. the opposite is true: tax competition limits state access and thus secures property rights. secure and stable property rights, untouched by the state, are the bedrock of economic growth. a state which makes economic planning difficult for entrepreneurs by means of erratic taxation rules is particularly detrimental to the vital prosperity of small and mediumsized enterprises. they can't afford a tax consultant.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ it is important to establish a functioning circular economy across europe, enabling future generations to make sustainable and efficient use of raw materials from primary and secondary sources. that is why i voted in favour of this own-initiative report. i am in favour of integrating circular economy factors into many aspects of our daily lives. we must be ambitious, but realistic. the measures to be taken must not lead to over-standardisation and the introduction of disproportionately stringent conditions which would be too burdensome, especially for our small and mediumsized enterprises. in this context, the motion for a resolution is unfortunately not balanced. i do not think that a revision of the ecodesign regulation is appropriate at this stage. i am also against the inclusion of environmental risks in ratings and capital requirements for banks. that is why we in the epp group have asked for separate and distinct votes on these texts, and i voted against it! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on 'resource efficiency: moving towards a circular economy' because i believe that europe can and must use its natural resources more efficiently. we have merely borrowed our earth from our children. and it has a huge economic impact: a 30% increase in resource productivity could increase gdp by just under 1% by 2030 and create 2 million permanent jobs.
in writing. ‒ take ‒ produce ‒ consume ‒ throw away ‒ the end of the world is not yet. in this traditional linear economic model, we have been wasting precious resources for years. with a circular economy, we could make this process a little more efficient. in principle, a step in the right direction, but some of the proposals in parliament go too far. they represent an unreasonable burden for european businesses, municipalities and consumers. a concrete example is the proposal to apply environmentally friendly procurement procedures. the original version of the owninitiative report should have required municipalities to always respect environmental criteria in all procurement procedures. such over-regulation would have presented municipalities with enormous challenges. we have succeeded in getting this commitment removed from the agenda. unfortunately, a majority of the parliament called for an extension of the ecodesign directive. you may have read about this directive in the headlines about the maximum power of vacuum cleaners, light bulbs and other household appliances. here europe should concentrate on the big issues. i'm for the circular economy. however, this should be stimulated by incentives rather than by over-regulation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum levels of radioactivity in food and feed in the event of a nuclear accident or other radiological emergency. i'm a father of seven, i have children, and that's why the arbitrary limits don't go far enough.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the creation of a capital markets union also because, as an expert on smes in my group, it is important to me that smes have better access to affordable credit across borders and thus be encouraged in their development.
in writing. ‒ it is important to promote smes. the epp group has this week been campaigning for the proposed capital markets union to provide more and new financing options for small and mediumsized enterprises in particular. the eu capital markets union aims to make it easier for firms to access more sources of money. the aim is to remove barriers between investors and investment opportunities. it is particularly important to us as the epp that small and mediumsized enterprises can access credit as easily as large corporations. we have been working on this in plenary this week. we in germany in particular benefit from our strong medium-sized enterprises.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted for the european agenda on security today because i believe we need to improve cooperation between member states in the fight against terrorism, organised crime and cybercrime in order to better protect our citizens.
in writing. ‒ i and my group have refused to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution on the european agenda on security. the european agenda on security for 2015-2019 aims to identify the challenges, principles and guidelines for dealing with security risks related to organised crime, terrorism, extremism and trafficking in human beings. but the resolution fails to limit itself to the commission's priorities. instead, the libe resolution also addresses 'economic inequality' as a cause of crime. the resolution also calls for an eu definition of national security and more opportunities for legal migration. it is therefore beyond the powers of the european parliament.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution on the situation in yemen today because i have the bad impression that yemen is facing a humanitarian catastrophe. europe must act humanely, technically and diplomatically. more than 80% of yemenis are in need of aid. the country is in dire need of food, and it is only a step away from famine. let's help the people.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i could not agree with the parliament's resolution on the security challenges in the middle east and north africa and the prospects for political stability. the report attempts to provide a general overview of the tensions and crises in the mena region and to provide an eu response to these issues. the original draft of the report looked very promising. it included a fair and balanced approach to the management of the various crises in the mena region. however, following amendments tabled in the committee and accepted by it, the report now advocates a comprehensive common security and defence policy (csdp) and a greater role for the eu in foreign policy. that is why i abstained from the vote.
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the european neighbourhood policy review report because i am firmly convinced that europe needs to adapt this instrument - particularly in its eastern dimension - to the new challenges and geopolitical realities.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my group in favour of the parliament's resolution on the review of the european neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy (enp) was developed in 2004 with the aim of strengthening relations with countries on the eu's eastern and southern borders. the eu is currently responsible for some 16 of its closest neighbours - namely algeria, armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, egypt, georgia, israel, jordan, lebanon, libya, moldova, morocco, palestine, syria, tunisia and ukraine. the report assesses the current actions of the enp and argues that conflicts in ukraine, syria and libya require a rethinking of the way the eu interacts with its neighbours. the report then makes a number of recommendations, including increased politicization of the enp and the appointment of special representatives in the east and south. this is a sustainable way of promoting strong relations with the countries on the eastern and southern borders of the european union.
oral explanations of vote
thank you for the flowers!
i am not going to go into detail. i would like to call on photographers, journalists and citizens today: unpack your cameras, take advantage of the sunny weather and take a picture of what's holding the stuff! because the freedom of panorama remains. this is good news for all of us in europe. i am glad that in the end it was possible to convince all the groups and a large majority of members of my initiative and of the request by my group in the european people's party to delete the critical paragraph 46. i voted for that today. i am even more pleased with the clear statement by commissioner oettinger. the eu commission also supports panorama freedom. everything that can be seen with the naked eye from public places should also be photographed. commissioner, we will take your word for it.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the own-initiative report on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society because there is an urgent need to adapt copyright law to today's digital world. i believe that freedom of panorama should be preserved, and that is why i voted against its restriction.
in writing. ‒ i have received many letters about freedom of panorama. i would like to make it quite clear at this point that i am in favour of freedom of panorama and i have also campaigned for this in the votes in parliament!
oral explanations of vote
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the evaluation of the european endowment for democracy (edd) measures. the fund will support parties, non-registered ngos, trade unions and other social partners in a coherent and coordinated framework to ensure the long-term consolidation of democracy, particularly in our eastern neighbours, and to promote respect for human rights and the rule of law.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the situation in burundi. burundi, one of the poorest countries in the world, has been plagued by violent protests against president pierre nkurunziza since late april. more than 80 people have already died, 140,000 have fled the country. and a week before the scheduled elections in burundi, it is still unclear whether the vote will take place. europe cannot be a guest here. europe must use all diplomatic means to help.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ i voted for the srebrenica commemoration resolution today because it is important to me that on the 20th anniversary of this massacre, we not only commemorate it, but also clearly define it as genocide. i regret that this has not been possible at the un because of russia's blockade.
the explanations of vote are closed. (the sitting was suspended at 2.45 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not with a score of 80, sudan ranks sixth on the 2015 index of christian persecution. it is becoming increasingly difficult for christians in sudan to live their faith. the fate of reverend michael yat and reverend peter yen reith is painfully representative of this persecution. i am therefore grateful that i have been able to take the initiative for this resolution together with my colleagues from the group of the european right. it is an appeal against the persecution of christians. for these two priests in particular, as for every other of the approximately one hundred million persecuted christians worldwide, religious freedom is a fundamental right. i'm glad we've heard that a few times today. we, as the europe of values, must defend this worldwide, fight for it worldwide. we must not tolerate the persecution of christians. we cannot turn a blind eye when people are discriminated against because of their peaceful religious beliefs. i therefore ask you, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group: stand with us against persecution of christians! stand with us for pastor yat and pastor reith! let us help these men to freedom and all persecuted christians to a life of peace and justice!
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 9 july 2015.
ladies and gentlemen, these days europe is facing a historic test. hundreds of thousands of people seek refuge with us from war and persecution. desperate families with their children cross the mediterranean in inflatable boats. people are camping in train stations, they're squeezing themselves through barbed wire, they're giving themselves to ruthless traffickers. many people lose their lives - men, women, children - asphyxiated in lorries or drowned in the mediterranean. at a time when more and more people are making their way to europe and more and more people are losing their lives, we must be clear that we are not facing the challenges with walls, or with closures or deterrence. let me remind you of something: a few days ago, the so-called islamic state irreparably destroyed cultural property in palmyra. we have almost forgotten that the director of this museum in palmyra was publicly beheaded by this terrorist gang a few weeks ago. the people who come to us are fleeing from these criminals and in their desperation they are not deterred by seas and walls. we will not respond to this global challenge with national measures or national egoism. we need a common policy on asylum and refugees to respond to this global challenge. the commission president, mr juncker, will present a number of measures here in strasbourg on wednesday, including a proposal for a permanent emergency mechanism for the distribution of refugees. and then, ladies and gentlemen, we all - not just here, but in all the union's institutions - have to ask ourselves what kind of union we really want. a union of all against all or a union of solidarity. the task before us is great. it is perhaps the greatest challenge we face here as the current generation of politicians. in all the debates about quotas, dublin iii or schengen, i ask all of us not to forget that we are talking about people and bitter fates. the people who come to us, they come because they believe in us and our values. but the dramatic events of the past few weeks have also made many people in the eu member states uneasy. i also want to say to people who ask us a lot of questions: not everyone who asks a critical question is against refugees. we must take the concerns and needs of the citizens of our union seriously, because the problems are obviously very big. i would like to thank all the people in our union, the countless citizens who, everywhere, at train stations, at holiday beaches, in many other places, provide exhausted refugees with food and water, give them clothes, give toys to their children and volunteer to help in refugee shelters. this humanity must be our guide so that the terrible image of little aylan kurdi, which i believe has burned into all of us, is never repeated in europe. (applause from the centre)
i have received requests from the ppe, s&d, gue/ngl, efdd and enf groups for appointments and changes in committees and delegations. the list of these names shall be published in the minutes of this meeting. if no objection is raised before the approval of this protocol, these designations shall be deemed to be confirmed.
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 3 september 2015 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday, tuesday: no changes. wednesday:the epp group has asked for the vote on the proposal to change the name of the 'delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council' to 'delegation for relations with palestine' to be postponed so that the committee on foreign affairs can be consulted on the matter. before i give the floor to mr preda, i would like to refer to the rules of procedure. the decision on this is a decision of the conference of presidents. i would therefore ask the commission to make a statement on the matter and to make it clear that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on foreign affairs. that's just to clarify the procedure. mr preda, please.
the proposal is clear. the request by mr preda is to refer the matter back to the conference of presidents, requesting that it consult the committee on foreign affairs again before taking a decision. (parliament rejected the request) the epp group calls for a resolution to be drawn up following the statements by the high representative on the situation in belarus and for the debate to be concluded with a resolution. the reasoning for this request is first given by mr preda.
the motion for a resolution tabled by mr preda is entitled 'belarus and the resolution'. (parliament adopted the resolution) the amendments to the agenda are as follows: there will be a resolution. the deadline for tabling motions for resolutions is tomorrow, 8 september, at 10 a.m., for amendments and joint motions for resolutions, at 10 a.m. on wednesday 9 september, for amendments to joint motions for resolutions, at 11 a.m. on wednesday 9 september. the vote will take place on thursday, 10 september, at the scheduled voting time. the green group calls for a statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in turkey to be made by wednesday. the debate is to be concluded by a resolution and will take place on wednesday afternoon. the vote on the resolution is due to take place at the september ii part-session, i.e. next week. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not ladies and gentlemen, since we discussed and adopted the progress report on turkey, and since the elections in turkey, a lot has happened in that country! many welcomed the entry of the erdogan government and the turkish army into the fight against isis, but at the same time, in my opinion, there were also very negative developments in turkey: the peace process with the kurds has been declared over. the persecution of oppositionists, especially opposition journalists, has now gone very far. yesterday we all saw tanks driving through kurdish cities. european journalists and foreign correspondents are now being persecuted as terrorists. this morning, a mob moved through istanbul to the headquarters of hürriyet, turkey's largest media conglomerate. i believe that in this situation we as the european parliament should expect mrs mogherini to give her opinion on these developments. on the one hand, we have to worry that what the erdogan government is doing in turkey for the sake of power is pushing the whole country backwards in time, backwards in time. on the other hand, you have to worry about the refugees in turkey, and you also have to worry about the stability of the coalition against isis. there are many reasons therefore for including this subject in the agenda item to which mrs mogherini will be joining.
mr. courthouse! i have already referred the question to the president of the european council following the conference of presidents. i have not received a positive reply to date. i shall call the president again in the light of today's meeting. thursday: no changes in the number of days. (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item is the debate on the report by cristian-silviu buşoi, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products (com (2015) 0045 - c8-0037/2015 - 2015/0028 (cod)) (a8-0186/2015).
member of the commission.– madam president, first and foremost, let me thank and congratulate the rapporteur, mr buşoi, and his colleagues for their commitment and thorough and also speedy work on the commission proposal to amend the basic regulation on trade in seal products. the amendment had become necessary after the wto ruling in june last year. while the ruling upheld the eu ban on marketing of seal products, the wto concluded that the exceptions provided by the eu for inuit and other indigenous communities and for maritime resource management had some discriminatory effects. we believe that the constructive cooperation between the institutions has led to a very good result. it will enable the eu to comply with its international obligations under the wto by the very challenging deadline which we were given for implementation and which will expire next month (on 18 october, to be precise). this is a very important step for the credibility of the eu, as one of the main users of the wto dispute settlement mechanism, in implementing its wto obligations. we are very pleased to have come to the end of this process of amending our seal regime and making it compliant with wto rules. it is a politically sensitive issue for many involved, and we are satisfied that a balanced compromise has been reached. throughout the process, the commission has engaged with all the relevant stakeholders and also those member states particularly concerned with the proposal. we believe that this dialogue has been very constructive and that its results are reflected in the outcome of this process. the final result upholds the ban with a meaningful indigenous-communities exception and addresses all the shortcomings identified by the wto, such as the need for removal of the marine resource management exception. it provides for a balanced approach between fulfilling the eu’s international trade obligations and addressing the legitimate concerns of inuit communities and member states affected by the changes. furthermore, some specific requests by the european parliament were taken on board in the compromise text, such as the provisions requiring the commission to regularly evaluate the regulation, as well as to inform the public about the ban and its exception. the commission has made it clear that we fully support the outcome as far as the substance is concerned. on some procedural issues, changes made to the commission’s proposal in the course of the negotiations require us to make two statements relating to horizontal institutional issues, which we have forwarded to the european parliament services for recording in the minutes. firstly, on the use of the no-opinion clause for the adoption of implementing acts, and, secondly, on the use of the comitology procedure for issuing technical guidance notes. commission’s statements on: 1) the use of the no-opinion clause for the adoption of implementing acts ‘ the commission underlines that it is contrary to the letter and to the spirit of regulation 182/2011 (oj l 55 of 28.2.2011, p. 13) to invoke article 5 § 4, subparagraph 2, point b) in a systematic manner. recourse to this provision must respond to a specific need to depart from the rule of principle which is that the commission may adopt a draft implementing act when no opinion is delivered. given that it is an exception to the general rule established by article 5 § 4 recourse to subparagraph 2, point b), cannot be simply seen as a ‘discretionary power’ of the legislator, but must be interpreted in a restrictive manner and thus must be justified.’2) the use of comitology procedure for issuance of technical guidance notes ‘the commission notes that the co-legislators have included in the final compromise text a provision according to which the non-binding guidance notes under article 3(6) will be adopted by examination procedure. the commission is of the view that the adoption of non-binding guidelines by the commission should not be subject to the control mechanism under regulation 182/2011 since the commission has its own autonomous right under the treaty to issue such guidance. considering the urgent need to meet the wto requirements and deadlines the commission does not oppose the solution favoured by the co-legislators in this particular file. this is without prejudice to the negotiations of the inter-institutional agreement on better law-making, as well as the position the commission will take on similar matters in the future.’
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank mr cristian buşoi for his work on this draft implementing regulation for the implementation of the wto decision. there can be no doubt that the european union, the european single market, is subjecting its legislation to the requirements of the wto, and i am very grateful to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection for having done so quickly. the question we are faced with, however, is how we can reconcile environmental protection, animal welfare on the one hand, with other economic and political constraints in the future. the exception we have found takes due account of these balance considerations. we must ensure that the legal options that have been allowed in this wto-compliant implementation process are also allowed in the end, so that the legislation has the value that we actually want to give it. in this respect, commissioner, we shall have to see how this legislation actually works in the end, but the european parliament's implementation process has been successful. thank you very much.
i have to say, madam president, in 2009, we enforced a blanket ban on the sale of products for commercialisation, and that was a good thing. we have rightly made an exception for the inuit, because we know very well that this is part of their livelihood. without this hunting and without the products they get from this hunting, they simply cannot survive, and so we cannot simply say, this exception cannot be made, or it is too complicated, or it is too difficult to control. no, we have to respect that these people also need a livelihood, and we said, yes, we have to do that. the second exception was a more difficult one: the conservation of marine resources, what can one understand by that? what can be hidden behind it? i think it's a good thing that we've now removed that exception entirely. we have done a good job and i think we can accept this compromise tomorrow with confidence because it really does put the right emphasis and it has also been taken into account that in the future we will have to look again at how this really affects, especially the inuit, because we do not want to destroy their livelihoods. thank you so much.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. a very short question: you said that refugees are welcome. does this apply equally to war refugees and poverty refugees? and if so, is there some kind of upper limit where you would say this is what we can still integrate, and this is too much?
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing today the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. we are also talking about refugees, of course, without distinguishing between persecuted and impoverished migrants, and without discussing why the middle east and north africa are in such terrible chaos. but that's not the point. hundreds of thousands of people are alone in germany, they need help and we have to help. let's stop talking and do something real. it needs living quarters, living quarters, meeting rooms, and a large canteen. if we stopped moving this parliament from brussels to strasbourg for three days once a month, we would have all this in the parliament building in strasbourg for just under 1,000 people. 750 congressmen's offices, each one with a bed, each one with a bathroom. there's a big canteen, there's lots of rooms that could be used for training. you could do a benefit concert in the plenary, all that is free for 27 days a year. if we stop the travelling circus, we will save hundreds of millions of euros and turn the parliament into a big asylum-seeker's home - it would be better used than it is now. by their fruits you will recognize them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think there are many good ideas that go beyond using the parliament and other buildings. but i think it's time, and it would be a real signal, that we don't just talk about the problems here, but do something that we can do very concretely, where we can make sure that we use this building in a meaningful way. we could do that right away. there would be no time to lose. the rooms upstairs are ready, they're empty, people could move in right away.
mr president, first of all congratulations to rapporteur ferrara and her colleagues for compiling this excellent report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu. it highlights the discrepancies between freedoms promised in law and the freedoms denied when people put them to the test. anyone whose fundamental rights have been denied deserves our support, whether they are taking to the streets of barcelona in defiance of national gag laws, whether they are rallying across the continent in support of the citizens’ initiative or, indeed, demanding access to documents from ongoing ttip negotiations without 95% of their contents being redacted. the report also takes a decisive stance against fundamental rights violations in the self-proclaimed war on terror, and it does not buy into the myth purported, for example, by the epp shadow that blanket surveillance could guarantee our safety. safeguarding the rights to be informed about government actions, to have one’s privacy respected, to speak out against injustice and to participate in the political process are all fundamental rights vital to democracy. it is this parliament’s duty to safeguard these rights, and i count upon my colleagues to adopt the ferrara report and to ensure that comprehensive monitoring of the member states’ fundamental rights obligations is ensured.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is surprising that such a report on the human rights situation in europe should simply omit the fact that there is discrimination through political persecution in the eu countries. the first is in greece, austria and the federal republic of germany. there are bans on opinions, bans on professions, bans on meetings, bans on hotels, bans on houses. in germany, 12 000 investigations are opened against patriotic citizens every year, and over 1 000 are in prison, most notably my friend horst mahler, who was sentenced to 12 and a half years for his opinion alone, and whose leg was amputated only in august because he was not given sufficient opportunity to move in a german prison. mr timmermans, you say that you are impartial. if you leave that out, you are not impartial, because fundamental rights are indivisible.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union sets high standards for each candidate country, and no country can become a member of the eu unless it has a clear commitment to democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights, and above all if these values are not also upheld. the eu is a community of values, and it should therefore be taken for granted that fundamental rights are fully guaranteed even after a country joins, but unfortunately this is often not the case. why should the eu be able to monitor the respect of european values effectively only before a country joins, but not afterwards? there is an article 7 in the eu treaty, but it is a blunt sword because of the many obstacles to its application. the commission and the council have taken the first steps to remedy this situation. this is all very welcome, but it is not enough! what is needed is a genuine fundamental rights mechanism, with continuous monitoring of the fundamental rights situation in each country and with country-specific reports published regularly. the eu institutions must be able to intervene in good time in the event of serious violations of fundamental rights in a member state. the core issue here is one of credibility. objective criteria and a transparent process would, in my view, ensure that no country is unfairly singled out. i support mrs ferrara's report and i hope that if the report is adopted the council and the commission will also take up the call for the establishment of a fundamental rights mechanism. thank you very much.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
mr president, two weeks ago in brussels the high representative hosted another meeting of the high-level dialogue for normalising the relations between serbia and kosovo with prime ministers aleksandar vučić and isa mustafa. the goal of the meeting – to finalise the implementation of four key agreements – has been reached. both parties agreed on the general principles on the main elements of the association of serb-majority municipalities. this paves the way for its establishment. both parties further agreed on the implementation of the energy agreement, the action plan for telecoms and an arrangement for the mitrovica bridge. these agreements mark a further step towards the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo and provide momentum for the high-level dialogue. the significant progress made in the dialogue ought to be acknowledged. i believe the time has come to open the first chapter in the process of negotiating serbia’s accession to the european union.
that concludes this item.
the next item on the agenda is the brief presentation of the report by mr richard corbett on the procedures and practices for the hearings of members of the commission lessons to be drawn from the 2014 procedure (2015/2040(ini)) (a8-0197/2015).
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, i am tempted to ask mr arnott how many candidates he can hear in the house of commons, let alone in the house of lords, but we shall not go into that debate. i want to thank the rapporteur, mr corbett, for his excellent and well—reflected report on a topic that members will understand is of great relevance for the commission. the commission welcomes and fully supports the pursued objective of making the hearings a more flexible and dynamic exchange. the hearings not only allow for parliament’s scrutiny of the commission, in line with the treaty, but also provide an important window for citizens on the workings of the union. incidentally, i was a minister in a national government, then i became a commissioner and all of a sudden, in the media, i went from being in some quarters a politician to an anonymous bureaucrat, whereas the scrutiny i went through in this parliament was much tougher than the scrutiny i had to face in the national parliament in the netherlands before becoming a minister. by the way, in quite a number of member states – because the second objection you always get is ‘unelected’ – how many governments do you suppose there are (i do not know the exact number, but there are quite a number of governments) where ministers are not elected? parliaments are all elected like this parliament. so it is very often simply a matter of perception. for the commission, it is of foremost importance that the hearings are conducted in an open, fair and consistent manner. in particular, hearings for all commissioners-designate should follow the same approach for questions and answers, both in the written and in the oral phase, and for the evaluation of each commissioner-designate. for vice-presidents-designate, who have a horizontal responsibility spanning the competences of a larger number of ep committees, it is indeed appropriate to foresee that hearings are carried out in an adapted format, such as an open conference of presidents. more generally, the confirmation period should be enough time to ensure that the new commission can take up office immediately on the normal expiry of the previous commission’s mandate. in this context, the commission supports the call on member states to make timely and gender-balanced nominations for candidate commissioners. as to the conduct of the hearings, the commission supports the envisaged increase of written questions from five to seven, on condition that sub—questions are abandoned. the commission also welcomes the limitation of questions in the oral phase to 25, with the possibility of immediate follow—up questions. in principle, the commission supports parliament’s objective to ensure that the hearing process is accessible and transparent for eu citizens. hearings are, however, for the elected members of parliament to exercise their scrutiny on commissioners-designate. therefore, it is the right of members of the european parliament to directly put questions to commissioners—designate. the commission is open to considering how best to facilitate parliament’s examination of potential conflicts of interest of commissioners-designate. should the commission consider it appropriate to come forward with an amendment to its code of conduct, it will seek parliament’s opinion, as foreseen by the framework agreement. to ensure that commissioners-designate are evaluated exclusively with regard to their personal competencies and knowledge of the envisaged portfolio, the commission maintains that the results of the evaluation of each commissioner-designate should be published individually within 24 hours after completion of her/his evaluation. as for horizontal issues affecting the composition and structure of the commission as a whole, the commission recalls the need to fully respect each institution’s competences and prerogatives. the commission looks forward to examining the concrete proposals for amendments to parliament’s rules of procedure regarding the hearings of commissioners—designate. i would like once again to thank mr corbett for a job very well done from the commission’s perspective.
that concludes this point. the vote will take place on tuesday 8 september 2015.
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by ms marietje schaake on 'human rights and technology: the impact of spying and surveillance systems on human rights in third countries' (2014/2232(ini)) (a8-0178/2015).
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank all my colleagues - not only in my own group but also in the other groups - for their support in the preparation of the report on family businesses in europe. it was a really nice and very interest-oriented collaboration. you probably all know the famous names of companies like de longhi, lego, heineken, oetker, clarins and whatnot producers of high quality products, known not only in their home countries but also beyond the borders of europe. all these companies have one thing in common, ladies and gentlemen: these are family businesses that have been around for decades and are doing well. but it is not just the large, successful family businesses that exist, there are some 14 million family businesses in the european union. all family businesses have a few things in common: they think and act sustainably, they pass their business down from generation to generation, they have a close bond, a high level of social responsibility towards their workforce, their employees, and they are generally very local. this means that they do not move from one place to another, if the tax laws in one country or another are perhaps a little more favourable. no, they also have a responsibility in their region, they remain in the region and are therefore as important for the local town or municipality as they are for competitiveness in europe. all this stability, renewal and growth in the family business sector ultimately benefits our european economy and the growth we so badly need in the european union. many family businesses are small and medium-sized enterprises, but not all. there are many family businesses with between 500 and 1 000 employees, which unfortunately do not fall under the definition of smes. and yet these larger family businesses have the same problems as smes: they suffer from too much bureaucracy, from complicated tax systems, from too little support. at the same time, they do not benefit from special support for smes. i think it is therefore right that we in this parliament should ask ourselves: if we are to move away from purely quantitative criteria in defining smes, should we not also take more account of qualitative criteria, such as the interlinking of ownership, control and management, risk of liability? in any case, we finally need an eu-wide definition of the concept of family business that is also suitable for the statistical offices in the member states and can be used. family businesses have the same problems almost everywhere in europe. one is the search for a suitable successor, which is often very difficult in many family businesses. statistics say that every year there are about 150,000 companies that have problems, that have to close because they can't find suitable successors. if you convert that into jobs, we're talking about 600,000 jobs lost every year. and of course, family businesses also tend to have a much higher equity ratio than non-family businesses. this is what leads to economic stability for businesses and the economy as a whole. that's why we need to take that into account when we invest. it is no wonder that companies in all member states complain about excessive taxation. equity capital remaining in the region, invested to maintain the business, should be exempted from taxation as far as possible. i would urge the commission to give more attention to family businesses. six years ago there was a working group in the commission devoted to this chapter. nothing's happened since then. i think that if we want growth, prosperity and employment in the european union, as we are aiming to do, then we must take account of the specific features of family businesses and simply ask ourselves: how can we give these family businesses - our backbone, and also the backbone of industry and the economy in the european community - even greater support, how can we help them better to solve their problems? there will be a lot of national-level action. but i think that the comparison of best practices and a clear commitment also at european level to promote and support these our strong family businesses is an honourable thing. that is why i am asking for support for my report tomorrow.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking my co-rapporteur, giulia moi. we have worked together very well and we agree on what we are now putting to the vote in parliament at first reading. we want to make two proposals for directives from the european commission into one single regulation which applies equally in all member states. this is particularly important in a subject as fundamental as cloning. all member states must act in the same way. the common market requires this. our proposal is very consistent. we want to ban cloning altogether, because cloning is animal cruelty. the success rate is extremely low, ten percent, says efsa. this varies by species, but ultimately it's a minimal success. why is that? the cloning technology is not mature, and in the last 12 years or so there has been no progress at all in this technology. mortality rate remains high. animals born alive - the few that are born alive - suffer to a large extent from malformations, malformations of internal organs or of the external extremities, they suffer from immunodeficiency and, for example, from problems of the respiratory tract. as a result, many of these live-born animals die in the first few weeks before they are even laid. and they die in pain. can we let that happen? is it not our responsibility to care for the welfare of animals? as i said, this technique is being used, even though it doesn't work. it is not directly applied in the european union, but in third countries - in north america, i think perhaps also in south america, in china for example - and we benefit from it because we can import so far. we can import reproductive material or clone the offspring of humans. is that right? is it right for us to say: yes, we have nothing to do with cloning technology, it is not used in europe, but we would like to have the reproduction material. this is a trick! we wash our hands of the guilt and let others do the dirty work, but we want to profit from the success. and is it really that successful? as i said, the mortality rate is extremely high. and the progress in breeding is, in our view, extremely limited. because there are biological limits to the animal. at some point, a farm animal's body is also exhausted, and everything else - more and more production, more and more muscle packs on an animal, more and more milk forced on the animal - is ultimately animal cruelty in the farm. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's farmers are not left behind. can we let that happen? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. that too must be taken into account. the removal and re-implantation of eggs is not without risks, and there are a high number of cesarean sections. finally, there is something that is extremely moving here, something that has always moved the european parliament, as well as our citizens in the european union: it is the fact that every reproductive technology developed for farm animals has finally reached humans. and it is this concern that drives people in the european union. that's why they're against cloning. they don't want to have that because they have that very fear that cloning, if it works properly, will eventually be applied to humans. so, defend the beginners! it actually touches the very roots of our own human existence. our citizens do not want the meat of cloned animals on their plates either. but they may already be being cheered on. that's why we want to ban everything. we want to ban not only the use of cloning technology in the european union but also the import of reproductive material, the import of clones and their offspring. and we want to make labelling compulsory for what may already have been placed on our market. is that unrealistic? we think no. traceability is possible, as the experience of gmos has shown. in the case of feed and food, it was possible to introduce a traceability system for third countries worldwide. and if the european commission now says: 'oh, that is not possible with farm animals', then in our view that is not true. there are breeding books for farm animals. farmed animals are therefore even more traceable by origin. that is our view, and we think that all of this is doable. i would therefore ask the european commission to reconsider the whole thing. and i would ask my colleagues in the house, above all, to give their full support to our joint report - the report by giulia moi and myself. you are doing something for the welfare of animals and you are also doing something for the european union's community of values. we have a responsibility here as members of the european parliament. sometimes politics has to set limits, and today is the day. please help us draw that line! thank you very much.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not madam president, you have rightly stated that the consumption of meat from cloned animals does not pose any health risks. the two arguments against cloning were first animal welfare considerations and secondly the public image of cloning. i think we should all agree that image is not a sufficient reason to ban an innovative technology in principle. in turn, animal welfare can be guaranteed by animal welfare legislation in cases where cloning actually causes animal suffering. but to ban the whole technology just because the image is bad seems questionable to me. what do you think?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. my colleagues! the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are all in agreement in this house that we do not want, and we do not need, the cloning of animals in europe. our breeders are able to preserve genetic diversity and produce high-quality breeding material in conventional ways. we all want a ban on the marketing of cloned animals and cloned embryos, just as we do not want foodstuffs from cloned animals! the commission is seeking to achieve this objective by means of two directives, and it is seeking to oblige the member states to ensure that no imported animals or products enter our countries. i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to convert these two directives into a regulation. the consolidation of the texts is important and necessary. however, i must now add a little water to the wine: the report by the two rapporteurs, mr sommer and mr moi, goes far beyond the objective. and there is no additional approach to the problem solving! we know that cloning is already being used in many countries, and that the sperm of cloned animals is already being used in eu countries. we have to make sure that we have a system of labelling and traceability of cloned animals and their descendants throughout the generations. i don't think he did. the identification in the breeding books must be sufficient, as the obligation to provide evidence is not currently possible. we can't tell the difference between the clone and the original. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity, and that the community is not able to take action on the basis of the principle of subsidiarity. thank you very much. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! i am quite sure that we are not going to make any real progress with this proposal in the report by mrs sommer and mrs moi on labelling. because i'm a realist. if i can distinguish something and if the scientific method is available, then i am happy to introduce it and clearly label the products. but if we do not have a basis for differentiating products at the moment, i wonder why we want to introduce a system where we already know that the proof cannot be provided.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of cloning animals for food is an important one. it is not just our sovereignty, our food security, but also our agricultural model and our values. i would therefore draw the attention of this house to one essential point, namely the essential traceability, because citizens have shown their very strong hostility to this technique. i would remind you that the countries which practice animal cloning have never kept a register to enable us to know today which animal is or is not the result of a clone. the text as presented and amended by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on agriculture and rural development cannot guarantee that products from cloned animals or their descendants will not end up on our plates. it is therefore obvious that the declaration provided for in this text is not sufficient to provide this guarantee because, in the absence of a register of lines, exporters may err in good faith. let's be clear and dare to tell the truth to consumers. at present, there is no technology to verify whether a product is derived from a cloned animal or not. the only way to ensure that citizens are free from cloned products is to suspend imports of the products concerned from countries that allow their trade, including under the ptci currently under negotiation. i therefore tabled an amendment on behalf of the enf group to protect consumers. any elected official with common sense or who doesn't want the ptci should support it.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the epp group supports the report by mrs sommer and mrs moi. and i personally very much support this report. cloned animals suffer. and it is a mandate - it is not a private ethics, it is a mandate - of the treaties that we take animal welfare into account. that's why it's legally imperative that we do something here. now, of course, one could argue that eventually, maybe this technology will be improved and it will be more effective. but i'm telling you, this is the direct path to cloned human. because everything that works in animals without problems is done in humans. i don't think anyone here wants to pave the way for a cloned human. the question is, how can we control legislation? this is important. i've been doing some research on genetics in my doctoral thesis, and i'm currently working on legislation for medical diagnostics, which includes dna diagnostics. my shadow rapporteur, mrs boszan, is sitting there, and so are many other colleagues. so i asked the companies that do dna diagnostics: if we pass such a law, can you bring a test? yes, in three to four months we have the test. so those of you in the commission or some of your colleagues who say that it cannot be proved should really talk to the experts. i would like to say something to you, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen: it is at least ten times easier to detect than genetically modified feed or food. it's much easier. and with all due respect, commissioner, you know that i personally have great respect for you. to propose a national ban on the marketing of genetically modified food and at the same time say that what we are asking for here is not demonstrable is absurd. so we shall vote in favour of the sommer/moi report by a large majority, and we shall be prepared to compromise. but if you have the decency, commissioner, and if you stick to your line, which you also followed in the hearing, then you too are prepared to compromise in the commission, and i urge you to do so!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the question is: do we really have to do everything that is technically possible, or are there not ethical limits as well? i think cloning is an ethical issue. we do not need them in european agriculture. we live by diversity. we must strengthen these, not restrict them by cloning technology. i am grateful to the rapporteurs and to the majority for having a clear, unambiguous position in the european parliament and thus following the majority opinion of the citizens. what i am asking the commission to do now is simply to abandon its rigid stance. we cannot continue to accept imports of, for example, sperm on the european market unless they are clearly labelled. the commission must also risk a conflict with the united states. why not? - why not? we are not the driven ones, but we should set standards here in the global markets for technology we do not want. we cannot accept cloning technology for animal welfare reasons either. cloning is a dead end and not progress.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to say once again that i have listened to members’ views on all aspects of the cloning debate and they have heard my detailed explanations as to why i believe the commission approach is the correct path to follow. i would like to respond only on a few things. some members mentioned issues related to descendants. i reiterate once again: descendants are conceived through conventional methods and therefore create neither food safety nor animal welfare concerns. of course we must draw the distinction that we are talking about cloning and not about gmos, they are absolutely different and are not the same thing. cloning is absolutely not the same as genetically modifying products. some of you mentioned ttip. i would like to say that the negotiations on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership had no influence on the shape of the cloning proposal – no influence. the proposals are the product of a serious analysis of the available powers conferred by the treaties, the result of the impact assessment and respect for the principle of proportionality. they are not about ttip; that is absolutely not true. some members mentioned the system of traceability, but of course tracing requires documentation through the food and animal production chain. this creates a bureaucracy that is bound to collapse under its own weight and will not provide consumers with any true advantage. on the contrary, such a burdensome, extensive system will most probably only lead to higher food prices for average consumers. i would like to say that i see very different views and different approaches. clearly we have a difficult task ahead of us to reconcile our differences. nevertheless, i am optimistic that, as with other difficult topics, we can work towards finding a common position, finding compromises and common positions on cloning.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much. i would like to thank the vast majority of this house for supporting our joint report. i would like to thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. let us send a strong signal by our vote this afternoon to the european commission and to the council of ministers. we want the member states to finally take a stand against their citizens, against the citizens who do not want cloning. we want each member state to explain to its citizens what its position is on this matter. is he on the side of the citizens or is he not? we have heard today that the european commission is not on the side of the citizens! it's just questioning the polls. if it doesn't match, then the poll was done wrong. commissioner, i am very disappointed in you and your house. i know that you are very committed to animal welfare. why don't you call your officers to order? of course it is possible to do what we have proposed here! the european commission must finally make a move, it cannot say: 'help, help! the third countries will be angry with us. that is what is behind this, behind your negative attitude towards our report. they are afraid that - the european commission is afraid that - third countries will sue us at the world trade organization. we in the european parliament do not have that fear! we represent our citizens and we represent the fundamental values which are essential for living together in the european union. we are against animal cruelty. if you come to me with technical tricks, if you try to cast doubt on the legal basis again, i can only say that the european court of justice is on our side. the european court of justice has already ruled in the past that article 43 of the general treaty on european union is the correct legal basis for all legislation concerning the production and marketing of agricultural products. and our report is about exactly that. i therefore ask the european commission to finally move away from its rigid stance and to move towards the european parliament, and we expect the same from the member states. thank you, sir.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we need a fiscal union, otherwise we cannot go on in the european union. but that's not the subject we're dealing with today. i would like to thank mrs jaakonsaari on behalf of the socialist group for the really excellent work she has done. you have just said that although it is a technical report, it is also a highly sensitive and highly political report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the customs sector. this is not a trifle, but a very important one. you said that the biggest problems are in the area of alcohol and tobacco. that needs to be addressed, too. the compromise that has now been found between ensuring data protection and respecting trade secrets - which is of course also important - and ensuring that such trade secrets cannot be used to facilitate this fraud - finding that compromise, that balance, that was exactly the trick that has been done here. i would like to thank you very much for that, and that is why we can agree with it, and that is a good thing. in the globalised world we live in today, making sure that the controls are good and getting better is the a and o of development, and it's about ensuring the safety of citizens. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. thank you again for the good work!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mrs jaakonsaari very warmly, also on behalf of the epp group, for her strong stand with the council and the commission, which has represented parliament very well, and for making it clear that, in all the efforts to combat fraud, the child must not be thrown out with the bath. i would also like to make this very clear to you, commissioner: it would of course be practical for fraud control if all companies would first register their shipments of goods so that somewhere in the administration it could be checked whether these things are correct. but that is not our picture of the european single market. we must concentrate our checks on the areas of fraud which are the main ones. the proposal finally succeeded in doing so, thanks also to the work of our shadow rapporteurs. but i also say quite clearly that if parliament had not been so firm on this point, there would have been a certain imbalance. i am therefore glad that we have finally reached this compromise together and that we have concentrated the controls very strongly on tobacco, alcohol and diesel fuel. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. the concept of trade secrets is often regarded as ominous in this house. i would like to say quite clearly that in the commission's original proposal, which was very much welcomed by the council, individual companies would have had to disclose all their exports and all the recipients of their products and services. the fact is that we work very well together in europe. but there are also competitive situations. and if the individual competitors can then learn about each other's supply flows, through accidental publication or otherwise, then of course this is massive interference in their business. this could have been prevented, and in that respect i believe that we can reach a good compromise here in the end. i was particularly pleased that the efdd group suddenly spoke here of the fundamental principle of free movement which they want to defend. they should do that elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the international labour organisation's convention on forced or compulsory labour with regard to social policy issues because, as a social policy-maker, i welcome the application of international minimum standards in the social field in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the ilo convention on forced labour. human rights must be protected throughout europe and across european borders. we must create working conditions that do not lead to forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proper application of the customs and agricultural regimes. the disclosure of all company information would be extremely damaging to competition. that would be a step in the wrong direction.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1007/2009 on trade in seal products because, as a member of the eurogroup for animals, i expressly welcome a further tightening of the ban on trade in seal products in europe.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on trade in seal products. it is important that the epp has succeeded in taking account of the right of self-determination of the inuit and other indigenous communities in this report.
in writing. ‒ this report implements necessary changes to the existing regulation banning the sale of seal products in the european union to meet wto requirements. this concerns the exemption for the import of seal products from seals hunted for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources (bmr exemption) and the exemption for the import of seal products from hunting traditionally conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (gi exemption). following a complaint by canada and norway, the wto decided that the bmr exemption should be removed and the ig exemption should be specified to focus more clearly on the protection of inuit tradition. compliance with wto recommendations and decisions is essential for efficient global trade, and discrimination against individual trading partners is a barrier to free trade. both the commission proposal and the committee report implement wto decisions. they work against discriminatory trade practices without being in conflict with animal welfare. the report is therefore welcome. i agreed to it. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report implements necessary changes to the existing regulation banning the sale of seal products in the european union to meet wto requirements. this concerns the exemption for the import of seal products from seals hunted for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources (bmr exemption) and the exemption for the import of seal products from hunting traditionally conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (gi exemption). following a complaint by canada and norway, the wto decided that the bmr exemption should be removed and the ig exemption should be specified to focus more clearly on the protection of inuit tradition. compliance with wto recommendations and decisions is essential for efficient global trade, and discrimination against individual trading partners is a barrier to free trade. both the commission proposal and the committee report implement wto decisions. they work against discriminatory trade practices without being in conflict with animal welfare. the report is therefore welcome. i agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ this report implements necessary changes to the existing regulation banning the sale of seal products in the european union to meet wto requirements. this concerns the exemption for the import of seal products from seals hunted for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources (bmr exemption) and the exemption for the import of seal products from hunting traditionally conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (gi exemption). following a complaint by canada and norway, the wto decided that the bmr exemption should be removed and the ig exemption should be specified to focus more clearly on the protection of inuit tradition. compliance with wto recommendations and decisions is essential for efficient global trade, and discrimination against individual trading partners is a barrier to free trade. both the commission proposal and the committee report implement wto decisions.
in writing. ‒ this report implements necessary changes to the existing regulation banning the sale of seal products in the european union to meet wto requirements. this concerns the exemption for the import of seal products from seals hunted for the purpose of sustainable management of marine resources (bmr exemption) and the exemption for the import of seal products from hunting traditionally conducted by inuit and other indigenous communities (gi exemption). following a complaint by canada and norway, the wto decided that the bmr exemption should be removed and the ig exemption should be specified to focus more clearly on the protection of inuit tradition. compliance with wto recommendations and decisions is essential for efficient global trade, and discrimination against individual trading partners is a barrier to free trade. both the commission proposal and the committee report implement wto decisions. they work against discriminatory trade practices without being in conflict with animal welfare. the report is therefore welcome. i agreed to it.
in writing. i have voted in favour of this report, together with my group, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. the report implements the necessary amendments to the existing regulation banning the sale of seal products in the european union. the cor considers this to be a balanced agreement. it is in line with eu animal welfare standards and reflects the eu's position as a committed and responsible member of the wto (world trade organisation). in addition, this report also respects those communities for whom seal hunting is part of their traditional way of life.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i am not prepared to risk our own health, the health of our families and that of future generations by allowing products whose consequences we do not know! animal cruelty must be brought to an end. and it is our job to respect the will of consumers who are strictly against cloning and against the consumption of food derived from clones and their offspring.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the cloning of animals kept and bred for agricultural purposes because i am strongly opposed to the technique of cloning for bioethical and moral reasons and out of respect for creation, and i expressly welcome a comprehensive, indefinite ban on cloning in the eu.
in writing. - i am very clear against cloning animals. i also oppose the importation of cloned animals and their offspring. clear boundaries must be set here.
in writing. ‒ the report aims at a complete ban on the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes within the eu, as well as a corresponding ban on imports. there are different views within the eu on this issue, so it should be discussed and decided at national level. the report goes so far as to call for a regulation instead of a directive. i reject the report on the grounds of subsidiarity and i am convinced that this innovative technology should not be hindered. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the summer/may report aims at a complete ban on the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes within the eu, as well as a corresponding ban on imports. i do share the concern about animal health concerns about cloning for agriculture at the present stage of research. however, consumers in the eu member states are not all the same in their receptiveness to these products, so we are calling for regulation at a deeper organisational level. the certification of products produced without the use of clones would be left to the choice of consumers. the commission itself has doubts about its competence. this is already apparent from the fact that it relies on rubber paragraph 352 tfeu only in its explanatory memorandum. the moi sommer report goes even further by calling for a regulation instead of a directive. the report thus shifts the responsibility further towards the european level. i therefore reject the report on the grounds of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ the summer/may report aims at a complete ban on the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes within the eu, as well as a corresponding ban on imports. however, there is no evidence that the consumption of cloned meat is a health concern. where certain cloning techniques affect the welfare of animals, this must be prevented by the application of animal welfare laws. but that doesn't mean that you have to ban cloning altogether. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal cloning is not carried out in the same way as the cloning of animals. there is therefore no reason to prohibit an innovative technology in principle. furthermore, it is not possible to trace the biological offspring of cloned animals. the ban on the use of such animals is therefore not enforceable.
in writing. ‒ the summer/may report aims at a complete ban on the cloning of animals for agricultural purposes within the eu, as well as a corresponding ban on imports. i do share the concern about animal health concerns about cloning for agriculture at the present stage of research. however, consumers in the eu member states are not all the same in their receptiveness to these products, so we are calling for regulation at a deeper organisational level. the certification of products produced without the use of clones would be left to the choice of consumers. the commission itself has doubts about its competence. this is already apparent from the fact that it relies on rubber paragraph 352 tfeu only in its explanatory memorandum. the moi/sommer report goes even further by calling for a regulation instead of a directive. the report thus shifts the responsibility further towards the european level. i therefore reject the report on the grounds of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014) today because many passages draw wrong conclusions and the principle of subsidiarity is violated in key demands.
in writing. ‒ the report by laura ferrara (epp/ed, de) analyses the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014) and refers to the main international agreements. these include the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (2000), the european convention on human rights (echr) (1950) and the universal declaration of human rights (1948). while the basic approach of the methodologically sound ferrara report is supported, there are, on the other hand, significant shortcomings: the report is too long and too long, contains a number of political demands which are not fundamental rights in the strict sense, and in doing so violates the principle of subsidiarity on several occasions. the alternative report presented by the epp group, which was not finally adopted, was the only one which had almost completely eliminated these shortcomings and which i therefore supported. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report by laura ferrara (epp/ed, de) analyses the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014) and refers to the main international agreements. these include the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (2000), the european convention on human rights (echr) (1950) and the universal declaration of human rights (1948). while the basic approach of the methodologically sound ferrara report is supported, there are, on the other hand, significant shortcomings: the report is too long and too long, contains a number of political demands which are not fundamental rights in the strict sense, and in doing so violates the principle of subsidiarity on several occasions. the alternative report presented by the epp group, which was not finally adopted, had almost completely eliminated these shortcomings and was therefore supported by me.
in writing. ‒ the report by laura ferrara (epp/ed, de) analyses the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014) and refers to the main international agreements. these include the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (2000), the european convention on human rights (echr) (1950) and the universal declaration of human rights (1948). while the basic approach of the methodologically sound ferrara report is supported, there are, on the other hand, significant shortcomings: the report is too long and too long, contains a number of political demands which are not fundamental rights in the strict sense, and in doing so violates the principle of subsidiarity on several occasions. the alternative report presented by the epp group, which was not finally adopted, had almost completely eliminated these shortcomings and was therefore supported by me.
in writing. ‒ the report by laura ferrara (epp/ed, de) analyses the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2013-2014) and refers to the main international agreements. these include the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (2000), the european convention on human rights (echr) (1950) and the universal declaration of human rights (1948). while the basic approach of the methodologically sound ferrara report is supported, there are, on the other hand, significant shortcomings: the report is too long and too long, contains a number of political demands which are not fundamental rights in the strict sense, and in doing so violates the principle of subsidiarity on several occasions. the alternative report presented by the epp group, which was not finally adopted, had almost completely eliminated these shortcomings and was therefore supported by me.
in writing. i voted against this resolution with my colleagues from the ecr. the state of fundamental rights in the eu is an annual report which examines the situation of fundamental rights in europe. the report covers a wide range of topics, including some issues that are outside the eu's competence or the scope of this report. there are significant passages in the report that deal with issues such as immigration, detention and austerity. the report also calls for the eu to establish a new infringement procedure for violations of fundamental rights. proposals are also made to introduce country-specific monitoring of fundamental rights. this is a clear breach of the european union's subsidiarity principle and therefore an overstepping of the eu parliament's powers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the procedures and practices for the hearings of commissioners lessons to be drawn from the 2014 procedure today because i believe that the text contains incorrect, unsustainable corrective proposals and lacks a real reform of the procedure.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposed procedure and the proposed approach to the consultation of commissioners.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'human rights and technology: the impact of surveillance and surveillance systems on human rights in third countries' today because it draws the wrong conclusions for me as a human rights politician on key areas and issues.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the controversial field of digital surveillance and the use of surveillance technologies in third countries in relation to human rights violations and the restriction of fundamental freedoms of the individual. the report is very critical of european companies and some member states for exporting technologies that can be used for such purposes. i warned that parts of the report stigmatize companies too much because they operate in countries with poor human rights records. trade, investment and good economic relations in general can contribute in the long term to improving the human rights situation and promoting democracy in a country. we have proposed a number of amendments to present a balanced approach combining respect for human rights, public security and parliamentary control. many of these proposals were not supported. that is why i voted against this report. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the controversial field of digital surveillance and the use of surveillance technologies in third countries in relation to human rights violations and the restriction of fundamental freedoms of the individual. the report is very critical of european companies and some member states for exporting technologies that can be used for such purposes. parts of the report condemn companies for operating in countries with poor human rights records. but trade, investment and good economic relations can help to improve the human rights situation and promote democracy in a country. the alfa meps have proposed a number of amendments to present a balanced approach combining the compatibility of human rights, public security and parliamentary scrutiny. many of these proposals failed to gain a majority. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the controversial field of digital surveillance and the use of surveillance technologies in third countries in relation to human rights violations and the restriction of fundamental freedoms of the individual. the report is very critical of european companies and some member states for exporting technologies that can be used for such purposes. i warned that parts of the report stigmatize companies too much because they operate in countries with poor human rights records. trade, investment and good economic relations in general can contribute in the long term to improving the human rights situation and promoting democracy in a country. we, the alfa meps, have proposed a number of amendments to present a balanced approach combining the compatibility of human rights, public security and parliamentary control. many of these proposals were not supported. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the controversial field of digital surveillance and the use of surveillance technologies in third countries in relation to human rights violations and the restriction of fundamental freedoms of the individual. the report is very critical of european companies and some member states for exporting technologies that can be used for such purposes. i warned that parts of the report stigmatize companies too much because they operate in countries with poor human rights records. trade, investment and good economic relations in general can contribute in the long term to improving the human rights situation and promoting democracy in a country. we, the alfa meps, have proposed a number of amendments to present a balanced approach combining the compatibility of human rights, public security and parliamentary control. many of these proposals were not supported. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu parliament's social control of values and norms does not stop at universities either. gender stereotyping is the key term in the modern world to create insecurity and thereby make people more easily manipulated. the 'establishment of new standards' is, moreover, explicitly called for in paragraph 24. the european parliament is also to award a new prize to women in science in europe. i would like to invite all women scientists who can scientifically prove the wrongness of gender mainstreaming to apply! i reject this nonsense and that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests: towards performance-based controls in the common agricultural policy, as i welcome any reform of eu budgetary mechanisms that helps to manage taxpayers' money responsibly.
in writing. ‒ the report i drafted in the committee on agriculture was adopted by a large majority in the plenary. in recent years, more and more rules have been added to the eu's agricultural policy without reducing existing bureaucracy. that has to change.
in writing. ‒ i thank the rapporteur for his very good report, which can make an important contribution to the much needed de-bureaucratisation of the common agricultural policy. the provisions of the cap have become considerably more diverse and complex with the latest reform, despite the commission's announcements to the contrary. the increasing complexity of controls has not only led to increasing error rates, but also to increasing costs. every year, 4 billion euros are spent on checks on the use of agricultural funds alone. the question arises, and rightly so, whether taxpayers' money is being handled responsibly and efficiently. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the number of on-the-spot checks must be reduced urgently. more performance-based controls can relieve farmers who have performed well. in addition, it must be ensured that penalties for errors distinguish between clear fraud and unintentional errors. a farmer who inadvertently places a cross in the wrong place in an application without causing economic damage cannot be sanctioned in the same way as a fraudster who acts deliberately.
in writing. i have agreed with my group to the european parliament resolution on 'protecting the financial interests of the european union: towards performance-based controls of the common agricultural policy'. the report is a step forward towards greater financial and budgetary accountability. it is also about cutting red tape and simplifying processes. this is nowhere more important than in the common agricultural policy, which has been a nucleus of the eu's growing growth over the last few decades and has always been a playground for the clash of national interests. i support anything that lights up the thickness of this area.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on family businesses in europe partly because i was able to win a majority in parliament for the introduction of the traditional concept of the 'honourable merchant'. many family businesses in europe are exemplary in this value-oriented form of economic trade and we do well to give the honest merchant a more european dimension.
in writing. ‒ revitalising the economy, creating jobs and promoting growth: family businesses in europe make an important contribution to this. however, they often receive little attention in politics. i am therefore committed to ensuring that family businesses receive more support at european level in the future.
in writing. ‒ i would like to thank mrs anna záborská (slovakia, kdh) for having produced this report. it was, after all, the long-standing head of the intergroup on family matters who initiated the reporting procedure at the beginning of this parliamentary term. i shall vote for the report with my group. i am particularly concerned with the removal of unnecessary obstacles through eu legislation and thus the strengthening of family businesses. the less eu legislation and the fewer state regulations, the more personal and business ownership is promoted.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on unlocking the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth because i believe this sector of the european economy is of vital importance to coastal regions such as my home state of mecklenburg-western pomerania. at the same time, i am pleased that my proposal to make tackling plastic waste in the sea an integral part of the blue economy has been taken into account. a visit to the innovative start-up 'biofabrik' in dresden a few weeks ago showed me that europe can play a leading role in this area. we must encourage that.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of using the potential of our seas and oceans to boost jobs and growth. they are important drivers of our economy. investments in the blue economy should include, inter alia, nature conservation and sustainable use of resources and should be integrated into existing and future programmes.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution on unlocking the potential of research and innovation in the blue economy to create jobs and growth. first, the report again raises a lot of dust for nothing, for example when it calls on the commission to 'create regulatory and legal conditions that encourage investment in renewable energy in the blue economy and to create a clear, stable framework to support research, business and government that allows increased investment in innovative projects to develop renewable energy'. this has nothing to do with subsidiarity. i reject calls for the commission to be given more powers to adopt further rules. secondly, the economic reports do not get better by being painted. after the green economy, we have the blue economy. the eu parliament's gender committee will probably soon want to take up the cause of the pink economy. this new colour theory shows a lot, but above all, that the eu does not understand much about economics.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because we need to do much more at eu level to achieve gender equality at all levels of the education system. unfortunately, we are still a long way from gender equality. and i supported every initiative so that girls and women would one day be given equal recognition and equal pay for their achievements.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the report on promoting the entrepreneurial spirit of young people through education and training, as it goes beyond the eu's competence in some areas and disregards the principle of subsidiarity. the text also puts the wrong emphasis on the entrepreneurial spirit of young people in europe.
in writing. ‒ i am clearly in favour of including entrepreneurship in our school curricula without compromising the sovereignty of the member states. by teaching entrepreneurial skills in school education, the entrepreneurial spirit of young people is strengthened and thus youth unemployment is reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on the way towards an integrated approach to europe's cultural heritage because, as a cultural politician, i strongly welcome a common strategy for the preservation of our european cultural heritage and would certainly like to see the eu become more involved in this area.
in writing. ‒ we need a new integrated approach to protecting europe's common cultural heritage. the aim is to promote a greater appreciation of the economic and social value of europe's cultural heritage.
in writing. i did not vote for the european parliament resolution on 'an integrated approach to european cultural heritage'. the report has little idea of what european heritage is. europe is a europe of diversity. the common roots lie in the roman-christian-jewish heritage. when the report then states that 'religious historical heritage, including architecture and music, regardless of the faith that produced it, should be preserved because of its cultural value', it is not preserving that heritage but destroying it. today's europe is unthinkable without the faith that gave birth to it. the report is not only nihilistic but even hostile to the european heritage. this is also reflected in the report's call for support for 'cultural activities of migrant groups'. the authors want to reshape european culture in their own way. this is not a matter of tradition, but of the wishful thinking of the forgotten and blinded members of the european parliament. they want to abolish our culture. they just call it something else.
in writing. ‒ the epp group tabled an alternative resolution to the own-initiative report follow-up to the european citizens' initiative on the right to water, which took up the basic demands of the citizens' initiative, such as: water is not a commodity but a human right, water is a public good. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'water'. the epp has also advocated that municipalities should be able to decide for themselves how they want to ensure the water supply to their citizens. the report went too far on many other points. in today's vote we have succeeded in getting the preference for public-private partnership over public-private partnership in water supply removed from the text. that gave me the opportunity not to vote against the resolution but to abstain.
in writing. ‒ water is and remains a human right. that is why i voted today in favour of the 'report on the follow-up to the european citizens' initiative on the right to water'. our drinking water must be protected from privatisation, selling out and speculation in the long term - this is also the declared wish of more than 1.6 million citizens in europe.
in writing. ‒ i am advocating for a basic right to water. in a motion for a resolution on the proposal from the left group, we have taken up essential basic demands for a european citizens' initiative on this subject (e.g. 'water is not a commodity but a human right' and 'water is a public good'). access to water and basic sanitation must be guaranteed for all citizens. at the same time, municipalities should be able to decide for themselves how they will ensure the water supply.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of direct democracy and therefore also support citizens' demands. i also want everyone to have access to clean drinking water. however, for reasons of subsidiarity, i am against this being organised at political level by the eu. so far, the water supply in our country has been properly handled by the municipalities and cities - we can leave that in their hands. in france, the drinking water supply has been largely privatised. most of them are. and if not, then in france it is up to the french communes how they deal with it. so, along with my colleagues from alfa, i took the following approach to the vote: - we tried to keep out of the report the patronage of the european commission, the eu's interference in education and culture, and politically very left-wing positions such as government price fixing. - when that failed, i rejected the report mainly for subsidiarity reasons.
in writing. ‒ it goes without saying that everyone should have access to clean drinking water. it is therefore important that the state retains control over the drinking water supply. this does not mean that the state has to own the water supply. there is nothing against private water supply, provided the state reserves the right to regulate it. i am also against any eu influence on the grounds of subsidiarity. in france, the drinking water supply has been largely privatised. most of them are. and if not, then in france it is up to the french communes how they deal with it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of direct democracy and therefore also support citizens' demands. i also want everyone to have access to clean drinking water. however, for reasons of subsidiarity, i am against this being organised at political level by the eu. so far, the water supply in our country has been properly handled by the municipalities and cities - we can leave that in their hands. in france, the drinking water supply has been largely privatised. most of them are. and if not, then in france it is up to the french communes how they deal with it. so, along with my colleagues from alfa, i took the following approach to the vote: - we tried to keep out of the report the patronage of the european commission, the eu's interference in education and culture, and politically very left-wing positions such as government price fixing. - when that failed, i rejected the report mainly for subsidiarity reasons.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution of 8 september 2015 on the follow-up to the european citizens' initiative on the right to water. i find that water is vital to life. no one can survive without water. everyone needs good, clean water. still, water is not a human right. otherwise, bread would be a human right. and the roof over your head. if all of this were a human right, then all of this would have to be provided. and get paid for it. every human being. to be clear, human rights do not stop at a border. if you talk about a human right to water, you must also give water to every person in the hand, in the mouth. it's not possible. human rights must be universal. this is only possible if they are rights of defence against interference and not grounds for claims for the provision of things against the state or against other third parties. but the rejection was difficult for me because it was a successful european citizens' initiative: more democracy and citizen participation in the eu. a remarkable and important undertaking in itself. unfortunately, this citizens' initiative has been hijacked by the left-wing groups in the european parliament. in doing so, they have done a disservice to democracy in the eu.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: dear representatives of the european council and of the member states, who have joined voluntarily in the european union. they and we all joined together with the idea of human rights, freedom, justice and solidarity. and it is precisely these european values that my report is about: human rights, because we are talking about people who have fled from war and persecution and are seeking refuge with us, human rights for these very people. for freedom, because these people are looking for a life in peace and freedom. right, because refugees have rights, they are not packages that we can send across europe without asking what their interests and desires and ideas are. solidarity, because all member states are called upon to contribute. solidarity is what holds us together. when one of us is in trouble, the other helps. all of us can at any time find ourselves in a position to need solidarity. we as a parliament - and i would like to thank our shadow rapporteurs for this - have negotiated this report in a few weeks, in a time of madness. we in parliament are calling for the mandatory distribution of 40 000 refugees and we are saying quite clearly that this can only be the beginning. we demand that the interests of refugees be taken into account as far as possible. we as a parliament have done our job. and the council? it is nothing short of a disgrace that the member states have not been able to agree on 40 000 places. first they said, "it's not binding, solidarity is voluntary", and then they promised that 40,000 people would come together. but it was nothing, only 32,000 came out. 32 000 places for refugees. we should not forget that over twenty thousand refugees arrive in greece every week. we should also not forget that lebanon hosts over a million refugees, and god knows lebanon has other problems, and only four million inhabitants, while in europe 500 million inhabitants are at home. a large number of these europeans are showing us what a rake is! the people of hungary, austria, france, germany, finland and all the other member states are showing what solidarity and empathy really means. we as members of parliament and governments should not be left behind! and that is why it is right that the commission wants to propose another instrument for emergency distribution, with 120 000. this time hungary will also be taken into account. it is a good step, but we cannot stop there. we need a permanent distribution key in case of an emergency, and we need to be able to decide and move forward when that emergency comes and not be blocked by various member states. but we also need a thoroughgoing reform of dublin, because there is a catch: dublin is not working, dublin is dead. we must come out, we must finally have a fair distribution: fair for the member states, but also fair for the refugees. europe is facing a major challenge, and many are even talking about a real crisis. and yes, the challenge of accommodating and caring for many thousands of arriving refugees is not small. but we should never forget that the real crises are elsewhere, that the real challenge is borne by the refugees who take up that challenge. people fleeing from assad's bombs, from the terror of da'esh, from dictatorial regimes - this is the real challenge, this is the real crisis. and helping these people has to be our job. europe, as one of the richest regions in the world, can only fail in this task if we stand up for ourselves, and we should not do that, we should not let that happen! thank you, thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are being overwhelmed by a mass migration of unimaginable proportions, millions are fleeing, some from war, others from poverty, and most are yet to arrive, thanks also to our chancellor merkel. our systems are breaking down. we must rethink europe if we are to continue to recognise our continent, and we must help, but in a different way. the new system must be called embassy asylum. asylum applications should only be made at our embassies, locally, close to home. and the borders to the outside are closed. no more asylum seekers on arrival. smugglers don't make money off of misery anymore. boats are not sailing anymore. asylum cases are much easier to investigate at home and the procedures are shorter. the incentives for poverty migrants are decreasing. and apart from better asylum, each country has to decide on its own immigration law, sovereignly, without eu quotas.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, now is not the time for member states to bash each other, it is the time for action. it's a time of crisis. it is also not the time to go after a single head of government like mr orbán, while suddenly remaining silent about other heads of government, like those from slovakia or the czech republic, who have made unspeakable comments. it is time for member states to act with each other rather than against each other. it is time we realised that with over a million refugees, two million refugees, it is not possible for individual member states to act differently, but all must at least ensure minimum standards - that is, for example, in greece, also for mr tsipras - at least food, drink and a roof over their heads. people can't die from the heat, they need to be offered some health care. it is now time to reflect on the dublin system and perhaps make a proposal that cecilia wikström and i actually made a few years ago when we tried to give the member states a crisis mechanism. dublin works in normal circumstances, but it doesn't work in crisis situations, when one or two countries are faced with masses of refugees that they can't handle on their own. we made that proposal four years ago, by the way. maybe it would have been better if we'd taken him in then. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, if greece receives funds, it must also spend them on proper housing. otherwise the european union cannot provide the necessary funds. and secondly, food and drink, which means at least water and bread, at least a little shelter and help the islands to absorb until we can pass on. germany is taking in almost all the refugees coming from greece anyway. austria is also taking in refugees. hungary has also taken in a great many refugees. there are other countries which have not done so. so, please, let's work together and not always look for the guilty one elsewhere.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the willingness to help shown in this report, the humanity shown towards these refugees, and for this reason i will also be voting in favour of this report, although i am unfortunately convinced that we will not be helping the refugees in the end. the reason is that these regulations are, once again, far too complicated. europe lacks a coordinated overall approach to this refugee area. the refugee crisis cannot be solved by the eu alone. we need a much bigger approach to this. we must involve the neighbouring countries. perhaps a global approach will have to be developed. it cannot happen overnight, but it must be started at some point. but it is also crucial that we do not give the wrong incentives. in germany, for example, people like to talk about a culture of welcome, but i think that is wrong. we should talk about a culture of helping so that we can help people and put that help first and not the wrong incentives.
rapporteur.– mr president, i am very happy to see that there is great unity here to say that we do have a humanitarian crisis and we need to act on it, now. there are people fleeing for very good reasons – from wars, from conflict, from persecution – and let us never forget that the majority of all refugees worldwide are not here, they are in lebanon, as i mentioned earlier, they are in turkey, around two million refugees in turkey alone, they are in pakistan, they are in so many other countries, let us not forget about chad, the refugees there, or in kenya. we are actually talking about a very small proportion of worldwide refugees that make their way to europe and we, as a strong, as a rich region, need to do our share in helping those people. those refugees are indeed human beings, they are like you and me, as has been mentioned before, and we are just lucky not to be in their shoes. it is eu law but it is also human sense to help those people, and that is all we ask for today. people all over europe have shown us how to do that, how to show empathy, how to show solidarity – and relocating 40 000 people from italy and greece is not a big task. if we fail in that small but important task, then how are we going to succeed in other tasks that lie ahead? because we do indeed also need to look at structural problems, we need to act together on much more than just relocating 40 000. but let this measure be the start of a rights-based, fair and common asylum policy in solidarity with all member states and in solidarity with the refugees. let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs and groups that have been very kind and very helpful in bringing this report through in a very speedy manner and in making this a success, and in also, together with the commission, in this part at least, in showing the council that they should act up, that they should bring together the 40 000, and more.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your work. three out of four people in europe live in cities and suburbs. cities are indeed engines of growth, and that is why they are particularly vulnerable to social problems on the one hand, but also to environmental problems on the other. in fact, in the next few years 50% of erdf resources will be invested in urban areas. good development in our urban areas is essential for the future of europe. i would like to emphasise very clearly that the concept of 'city' must be understood in a broad sense. it is not just the big cities that are affected, but also small and mediumsized towns, all towns. but it is also about the countryside. we are not against rural areas. on the contrary, the surrounding countryside is important for the development of cities. the european debate on urban policy has been going on for over 20 years. i therefore welcome the commission's launch of an 'urban agenda'. in my report i call for the urban dimension to be an integral part of all european policies. we need to think about cities all the time, everywhere, in all policy areas. the fact that so many policies affect urban life means that there are different measures and funding options, but often not coordinated. this is very often very confusing for cities and very little helpful. that is why we want a task force within the existing structure of the commission, a kind of 'one-stop-shop'. this will allow us to ensure greater coherence internally in all projects affecting cities and to ensure that there are external contacts, because for many cities european funding and european standards are still a sealed book. and also, cities need to have a bigger say. their views and expertise must be better heard in european legislation, and from the outset. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. what is also particularly important to me in this debate is that a european urban agenda should not be confused with the fact that there are new guidelines. i don't want to add to the burden on cities. we want a kind of toolbox for cities. cities need partners, but cities also need platforms for exchange. what we don't need are new guidelines. they would be very difficult to put into practice. that is why we want every new european legislation to consider the consequences for cities, which are often very diverse. in our report we are not trying to emphasize or minimize any particular challenge. every city is different. ladies and gentlemen, i find it very regrettable that in the mission letter from president juncker to the regional commissioner there is not a word about urban policy. we need someone in the college who explicitly makes city policy. the commissioners for digital, transport, energy and social affairs all have ideas for cities. what we need is a coordinator, a person, a kind of 'mister or misses urban policy' in the commission. i would like to see it and i would like it very much if it were regional commissioner crețu, who then needs to be given the corresponding powers. but for my sake, it can also be a vice president who explicitly deals with city policy, organizes and coordinates it. this is what our cities in europe need!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. the new cohesion policy has been launched, and that is a good thing for the regions of this union. it is also important that we give cities more support in meeting their challenges. it is also important that regional policy is used as efficiently as possible to support investment in sustainable development and the creation of good jobs. let me make a slightly different point. over a third of the european budget is spent on cohesion policy. this is a sign of the immense solidarity between the regions of the european union. but we also need this solidarity in other situations. we need them, for example, to take in the many refugees who are now coming to europe. solidarity is needed here too, and solidarity cannot be a one-way street. cohesion policy is a good example of this. please follow this solidarity in other areas. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am surprised that you are asking this question, because i know that we are creating a framework which we have negotiated with the regions, which we have negotiated in parliament, which we have negotiated with the committee of the regions. we're just creating a frame. the regions themselves decide what actually happens in the regions! this is the uniqueness of this regional policy, and i know that the regions in your member state have also benefited from it very successfully in the past and will continue to do so in the future. it is therefore a good reason to promote and support this cohesion policy here and to continue to do so in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. much has been said about the role of cities. i don't want to repeat myself. i would like to add a very different aspect. while christian socialists are worried about the upcoming wave of visitors to munich's oktoberfest, the citizens of munich are welcoming the many refugees who are arriving in their city. this, ladies and gentlemen, is another example of the the urban dimension also includes the preservation of public spaces for democratic debate. in addition to theatres and universities, these are now railway stations. whether in budapest, vienna, dortmund, saalfeld or berlin, the future of the modern, integrated european city is being discussed everywhere. from sustainable energy to digital networks, we could go in other directions. but this would require an end to the adventurous policy of cutting back on public spending. for example, no one needs the so-called macroeconomic conditioning, no one needs the bureaucratic hurdles to get to the pits of production in the cities and in the individual towns. the european exchange on the urban dimension has been under way for some time. but in the future, we're gonna need more than good reports. i thank the rapporteur for this signal to draw attention to the importance of the urban dimension. my group has been actively involved in this report and will be happy to support it.
madam president, last weekend i went to a small village in the north of hungary and the situation i found there was devastating. on the one side, in one part of the village, there were poor families living twelve people together in small houses with only 70 square metres of living space. there was no running water, no paved roads. three kilometres further away, there was a very different picture. there was a renovated city centre, a brand new water fountain that was, unfortunately, already closed down. this renovated city centre was funded by the european union with eur 160 000. this is an example of how cohesion policy can and is going wrong, because these kinds of projects have a detrimental effect on social cohesion in our societies. this situation is even more unacceptable when we know that, first of all, cohesion policy can be such a powerful tool to really change societies and to make the european union more social, more sustainable and more democratic. secondly, because many people in this room have worked for the last few years to develop tools in order to make cohesion policy work like this. be it the partnership principle, be it clear investment criteria, be it the code of conduct or capacity-building measures on the local level, all these things have been developed in the committee on regional development and in this parliament. i say to my colleagues today, let us not wait until the next funding period, until the next regulation is negotiated. we have to start fighting now to make cohesion policy in the european union an investment tool that creates a sustainable, ecological, social and democratic european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's cohesion report provides a review of what has been achieved in cohesion policy, but it is also intended to set out the objectives for the new funding period. the sixth cohesion report makes no mention of one of the important pillars of cohesion policy - territorial and crossborder cooperation. but it is precisely territorial and crossborder cooperation that helps to overcome borders and bring people together. the new regulations on territorial cooperation and the european network for territorial cooperation have created broader and better opportunities for this. these instruments can now also be linked to the neighbourhood policy, which is becoming even more important in the present situation. i am therefore very grateful to mr deutsch for the excellent report he has produced on this policy area, which is not the same as the commission's. the sixth cohesion report also states that cohesion policy programmes should give cities a greater voice. the westphal report provides important impetus for this. i hope the commission will take these and implement them. it has been said that european policy can only succeed if it is made with the citizens, and that together. 70% of them live in cities.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for the last word on this subject today. it's good, and it's been fun, that so much attention has actually been paid to the cities of europe today. the report also aims to achieve one of the objectives of the report: to put urban policy in the minds of brussels and strasbourg, and to make sustainability a reality. to the colleague who has left, who is so afraid of this, of the strengthening of cities, i can only say that reading is sometimes helpful. the same applies to the report, the urban report, which answers many of the questions it raised. i personally look forward to continuing to work on the urban agenda. and i am very much looking forward to the commission's specific proposals, and indeed they will come. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur-shadow for their work. it was not only a lot of fun, but it was very concrete. we put a lot into the report, and it would not look like it does today. i still think that we must give the cities less weight and much more room to manoeuvre. our cities are the central spaces of our society and they play a crucial role in our path to the future. this is especially true now. cities face great challenges in helping the many people who come to us out of fear, need, suffering and fear for their lives. we can't leave the cities here in the rain! they need our help, they need european help! that is why i keep saying and insisting that we need a good future for our cities and we must find it. the urban agenda should be just a first step.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i too would like to thank mr kukan for his report. i think we can say without any doubt that the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations was a great success throughout europe, despite some reservations. countless associations, institutions and churches have taken part in the actions. the logo was present throughout europe. and i mean, a lot of the impulses that were generated are sustainable, they're still resonating today. in its report on the european year, the european parliament insisted on including solidarity between generations in the title, alongside active ageing. you can't discuss one without the other. here, families are the hearth of a lived solidarity of generations. mothers in particular make active ageing possible and they deserve special thanks in this context. but in germany they often end up with a minimum pension. i want to create a european family strategy so that mothers, but also parents as a whole, can enjoy their old age with dignity. for 2016, i would like to make it the european year against violence a wish. i hope that this proposal will find your support here.
i have to say, madam president, in november 2010, the european parliament adopted my report on generational justice by a clear majority. for the first time, concrete measures for young people and older people have been combined into a single package at european level. this includes the european youth guarantee. the member states undertook to offer every young person who has been unemployed for a maximum of four months a job, an apprenticeship or other training. it has become an important tool for dealing with the consequences of the economic, financial and social crisis. the report by my colleague mr kukan shows that it is helping to prevent a lost generation. another building block was the proposal to create a european year of active ageing, which the european commission announced in 2012. among other things, older workers should be available to the labour market for longer if they so wish. a number of events have demonstrated that older people are not a burden but an asset to society because of their experience and knowledge. a small drop in the bucket: the budget of 5 million euros was too small to meet the great interest of the citizens. some points are still awaiting implementation: inter alia, generational balances to reflect the flow of payments between the years and, of course, the european pact 50plus to increase the employment rate of workers over fifty years of age. these and other instruments will further advance the idea of generational justice.
i have to say, madam president, i also thank the rapporteur. the demands in his report are a means of strengthening the positive role of older people. in fact, these initiatives must now be followed by concrete action in all areas of life. it is important that we keep people in active employment until they retire, otherwise we will create more old age poverty in europe. the role of the social partners is also very important. because for older workers to keep their jobs or even get a new one, we need transformed jobs with good occupational and health protection, part-time opportunities and lifelong learning. the report also stresses the need to ensure that the social partners are able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not distorted. it is more important that everything is done to ensure that workers can actually work in good health until retirement.
i have to say, madam president, when we vote tomorrow on the three partnership agreements, we shall be making this a partnership in the truest sense of the word. in partnership with the contracting states, such as guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar, on the one hand, and with the member states of the european union, on the other. what do you mean, "i'm not"? the european union receives a certain amount of fish and in return the people of the contracting countries receive money to improve their living conditions. the european union can only catch as much as it can catch, and only the surpluses that are not used by a third country. in our agreements we call on our partners to guarantee the cotonou convention, in particular article 9 on human rights, democratic principles, the rule of law and good governance. i say this also to guinea-bissau. if our partners do not respect this, it is possible to suspend these agreements. this has been going on since 2014 and is very important for us. we, the members of the european union, have also introduced new rules for our fishermen. if our trawlers do not comply with the cfp rules, namely to stop overfishing, we can withdraw fishing rights for up to two years. i therefore assume that in the future europeans will fish fairly and that the terrible images in the media of us fishing the seas for nothing will finally be shown to the third world. i also see the new fisheries agreements as an important step towards tackling the causes of migration.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to tell you. ladies and gentlemen, i think it has become clear in the debate that the people of guinea-bissau, madagascar and cape verde are also the main target. they live in abject poverty and are unable to use their own natural resources. they have small beach fishing, small beach boats and maybe an income of one euro a day. and so these fisheries agreements which the european union is going to conclude with the developing countries are very important in two respects. on the one hand, there are the development policies, that we are promoting the fisheries sector in madagascar, cape verde and guinea-bissau, that they are getting economic development. on the other hand, the european fleet can fish there, and of course according to the rules it has set itself: basic regulation, no discarding, complete surveillance, all the way to monitoring. we have ais, the automatic ship identification system. in europe we know what is happening to our fishing fleet in the indian ocean. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quota system is not used to the detriment of the fishermen. in this respect we also have a positive development as regards these treaties, the fisheries agreements, also with the republic of madagascar. i will vote for it tomorrow! and finally, it is also about taking action against illegal fishing. if we look at the fleets of the chinese and the russian federation, i think there is much, much more to do than with our fleets from spain, portugal, italy and france, which are there.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner vella, you are very well known. i take the floor because it has been said before that fisheries agreements are colonialism and exploitation. they used to be, but they're not anymore. i think it is important to emphasize this. it's actually like this: ever since there's been a fishing fleet with modern vessels, with freezing equipment on board, fishing has been global. it's fished globally, by the eu, by asian countries, by many. for a while, it was really exploitation. the fact is that the modern ships in poor countries have been fishing the coasts empty, and the local sector has had no chance to get back on its feet. thank god that's different now. the eu has done a very good job in recent years, even if not perfectly. the eu is now fishing for what the local countries cannot fish for themselves. the money that the countries receive as compensation from the eu is used to build up the sector. this is also very good for the situation on the ground. and finally, it is also true that for the eu, sustainable fisheries is a condition for these partnership agreements. it is a win-win situation for both sides and for the world's fish stocks. that's why i think it's really good that we have this.
member of the commission.– mr president, let me first thank your rapporteur, mr van de camp, the shadow rapporteurs and indeed the european parliament as a whole, for the really valuable cooperation in the implementation of the transport white paper. we have worked hard since last november with the committee on transport and tourism (tran) on this report. the fact that there were over 600 amendments shows the high level of engagement by members of parliament on this topic and the report is of course very welcome and timely. the commission is pleased with its general thrust and quality. please allow me to comment on seven specific points in that report. first: the report emphasises the promotion of co-modality and effective use of all transport modes. we are fully supportive of this objective. this is why our policies aim at improving framework conditions, internalising external costs, completing missing infrastructure links, addressing interoperability issues at all levels, and establishing fair competition for all modes. second: modern infrastructure. this is the area where the commission has made substantial progress. the definition of ten-t corridors and creation of the connecting europe facility have been one of our main achievements in recent years. i am also convinced that transport projects can greatly benefit from efsi, the european fund for strategic investments. third: transport sustainability. this is an area where the commission will remain very active. i am thinking here about decarbonisation but also about actions against other environmental impacts – noise, air quality and similar. it is true that urban mobility is an area where more efforts are needed, but we have to be careful not to push solutions that are not tailored to the local specifications. fourth: digital solutions. we agree that we need to improve travel information and provide integrated ticketing systems. however, i also share the view of many stakeholders that we cannot merely impose one solution at eu level; we should rather make the information available and let businesses come up with solutions matching customers’ needs. we will be there to develop standards and the necessary regulatory frameworks to allow value—added services to emerge. the report calls for a fifth element, which is placing people at the heart of transport policy. i could not agree more. i am personally convinced that transport should first and foremost serve the needs of society, the users, passengers and consumers of freight. this is something we will keep at the heart of all our initiatives. sixth: social issues. the current situation is not satisfactory. the juncker commission attaches a lot of importance to addressing poor working conditions and skills mismatch, and avoiding social unfairness. without a strong social agenda we will not be able to strengthen the transport internal market. i concur with the report in this respect. seventh: more competitive and efficient transport. there are still too many barriers in europe negatively affecting the functioning of the transport single market. we are working to gradually remove these barriers and to create a full single european transport area with high standards which can then be exported to third countries. this will enable europe to keep its global leadership in transport. finally, the report underlines that one of the main weaknesses of our current policies is poor implementation. i could not agree more, mr van de camp. this is an area in which i hope we can cooperate closely, in particular to ensure that eu law is as clear and simple as possible and that sufficient attention is dedicated to enforcement. i look forward now to hearing members’ detailed comments and views as regards the way forward in the white paper. our work is everlasting and i look forward to really cooperating with this house in a constructive and sustainable manner throughout my entire mandate.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the report provides many good indications for greater intermodal connectivity, for more sustainability in the transport sector, for the upgrading of transnational transport links. theoretically, this all reads very well. but, ladies and gentlemen, does the transport sector really have the political attention it deserves today? for many, the transport sector is clearly a milk cow for europe. the european union is also expected to regulate new ideas for tolls, levies, increasingly stringent environmental objectives, and even local transport in the city. but this is not just about regulation, it's about finance. where would we be today if oil taxes, motor vehicle taxes, environmental taxes in the nation states had actually been re-invested in infrastructure and environmental protection and not diverted to social systems? transport is also a stepchild of funding in the european commission. i'm sorry to say this. but why did the eu commission take the money from the hugely important connecting europe facility to finance the guarantees for the efsi? the council presidency is also obviously a stepchild. we have acute border security problems, we have dramatic underfunding of transnational infrastructure. and you know, the next informal meeting of transport ministers in the council on 8 october is going to be titled, in the light of all these problems, 'the bicycle as a means of transport'. i think that the european transport policy deserves a different focus. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. we want more sustainability, we want more competitiveness of our infrastructures and our companies, so that we do not lose out in global competition!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i am not going to go into detail. - i'm not sure. it's true, transportation is incredibly underestimated - i see it that way too - although life without transportation doesn't work at all. transport is the backbone of the internal market. if we think about ordering something on the internet, we want 24-hour delivery without transportation it's not possible at all! we go shopping, we want fresh produce every day, but that's not possible without transport! the waste disposal cannot be done without mobility, and in general mobility is one of the fundamental rights of the people of europe, and for this we also need all means of transport. and that's why, for example, we had this metro plan as a big throw in the last period. a metro plan linking all the cities and major centres of europe. this ten-t story we have here, it looks great, it is exactly the european idea we need, that people can come together, trade, preferably without borders and without congestion and without any other obstacles. a very noble cause that needs money. that is why we have put more money into the budget. and to have that mobility, we need all the means of transport for people and goods. we need both the railway and the road with trucks, we need the railway, we need the ships. we also need bicycles for some. it is all necessary and it is then expected to meet certain criteria. it should be as clean as possible, it should be as safe as possible, it should be as accessible as possible to all people, no matter where they live and whether they have disabilities or not, and it should be as fair as possible. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so it's a whole bunch of what we're looking at. we have this midterm review. there is a lot to improve, and in improving we must always ensure that we have a balanced view of all areas, both for users and for providers, and that we do it in a european way. i cannot deny that we are also doing this in a way that, for example, we are making progress in the field of aviation, although gibraltar is actually a bone of contention. we should really find a peaceful solution between england and spain. for the people of europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. first of all, i would like to thank the protagonists, firstly the rapporteur, mr wim van de camp, and our shadow rapporteur, mrs claudia tapardel, for their good work. it was indeed a very constructive and, in some cases, emotional debate over several weeks, which we can now conclude. i would like to say at this point - almost four years after the white paper we adopted here - that we are on the right track with regard to the objectives we set ourselves at the time, which were and are admittedly ambitious, but we have not yet achieved them. for example, as regards the change from road to rail, we have not achieved the overall objective of moving transport over 300 kilometres to rail. we are moving at a relatively low level here. for example, from 2008 to 2011 we had an average share of goods transported by road of 76,1%, and in the period from 2011 to 2013 it was 74,9%. this shows that, while the direction is right, it is still under-represented. we must continue to make efforts. i would also ask the commission to lend a hand to the european parliament in the next legislative procedure in relation to what we have to do in the social field. we have repeatedly tried to improve the social and safety rules, whether in the various transport sectors, such as the pseudo-autonomous carriage of passengers, or in air transport, where people pay to fly, or where there is a systematic undermining of driving and rest periods. we must continue to work on these areas. commissioner, i thank you for your strict and correct attitude regarding the german toll. we need a european solution and we will achieve it together.
the commission has already done so. the transport sector has a direct impact on our daily lives, on the economy, the environment, the climate, health, social aspects, tourism and much more, and yet its importance is so often so greatly underestimated. the measures we take today have a direct impact on the quality of life of our citizens of tomorrow. it is therefore of the utmost importance to take stock and define the way forward with a view to sustainable mobility and a single european transport area. wim, thank you for your work! the report could go a little further on some of these points. i am thinking of the patchwork of toll systems. or why do we not call for the mandatory standard installation of driver assistance systems? i am particularly pleased that road safety is still seen as a priority of european transport policy. but for all our successes, we still need concrete objectives. this includes a strategy to reduce the number of serious road injuries, as well as an eu-wide harmonised maximum blood alcohol concentration limit for novice and professional drivers.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for their very valuable and very specific contributions and comments. we have taken note of all of them. both your remarks here tonight and the report will be taken into account in the finalisation of the white paper implementation report, which we will complete by the end of this year. but let me stress how important it is to hear that we all recognise how important transport is for growth, jobs, and for a global lead. so let me say a few additional words on the process itself. the public consultation work with stakeholders has now been completed. since many of the implementing measures of the 2011 white paper have only been coming on stream relatively recently, we are not in the process of doing a full evaluation but rather of taking stock of what has already been implemented, what has become obsolete and what is left to do. the political and economic landscape has, of course, evolved since 2011, but the ongoing exercise shows that the main provisions of the white paper remain relevant and are worth implementing. i understand that parliament is in agreement with this approach. finally, i would like to thank once again mr van de camp and parliament for having decided to take this initiative. as mentioned in my introduction, we certainly agree on the broad lines going forward. i hear a lot of calls for action. i like that. let us now work together on the initiatives needed to make real progress.
a writer. the commission has already done so. the professions are extremely important professions and form the backbone of european union society. these occupations also have a very high level of qualification, and are usually in the areas of health, justice and other important safety issues. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to access the information they need to make their jobs more attractive. i agree with my colleague tajani that we do not need excessive bureaucracy, but at the same time we need to be sure that a high quality of service can be provided in these areas. that's exactly what we need. you are also currently undertaking an evaluation process as part of the implementation of the vet directive. i know that in these areas this process is being examined and looked at very closely at the moment. the question you are asking yourself, and which i would like to hear answered by you, is: what is the impetus in this area, what are your expectations in terms of the purpose and purpose of this evaluation process, and what are the consequences you want to draw from it? because these are things that we're very concerned about. as i said, we want to ensure that these services are provided at the highest possible level and that the consumers, the patients, the many people who benefit from these services, can also be sure that the quality is also guaranteed.
member of the commission.– mr president, thank you very much for the opportunity to stress the importance and role of the liberal professions in europe because, as your question crucially underlines, liberal professions are first and foremost recognised for their entrepreneurial spirit. lawyers, architects, engineers create their businesses as independent enterprises. they invest in their own assets and professional know—how, they bear the business risks and reach out for economic success. they are, of course, entrepreneurs creating jobs and providing high-quality products and services. for this very reason, the commission decided to make a very special commitment to the promotion of liberal professions in its entrepreneurship 2020 action plan. in this context, a working group ‘bolstering the business of the liberal professions’ was set up to assess their specific needs as entrepreneurs and businesspeople, such as acquiring know—how and skills, access to markets or access to finance. this is almost the same as for the others, but we are very much focusing on those professions. this autonomous working group submitted a series of recommendations which are included in a report that will be finalised around the end of the year and which is built around five thematic blocks. the first block is entrepreneurship, education and training, because liberal professionals need to acquire managerial and entrepreneurial skills. i would like in this place to highlight that liberal professionals can already benefit from the exchange programme erasmus for young entrepreneurs. the second block highlights the importance of facilitating access to finance, and from this perspective it also has to be stressed that they are offered money from programmes like cosme and horizon 2020, and the use of the advisory services of the enterprise europe network. the third block analyses access to markets. the fourth block invites representatives of the liberal professions to contribute to the reduction of their regulatory burden, which members mentioned a few times, by identifying bottlenecks and best practices across the eu. finally, the working group expressed its wish to strengthen the representation and participation of the liberal professions at european level. therefore, i decided that the liberal professions will be represented and invited to participate at in the 2015 sme assembly which will take place in luxembourg in november this year. this should enable liberal professions to be more directly informed about all the policies put in place. as far as the regulated professions are concerned, it should be said that the commission is currently carrying out a transparency and mutual evaluation exercise in each member state as a follow-up to the professional qualifications directive. this is also, it has to be stressed, an exercise in very good cooperation with national authorities, and has already made it possible to identify more than 5 000 regulated professions in all sectors of activities and in all member states. this is particularly helpful since we know that a large majority of the liberal professions are regulated ones. the regulation of professions limits access to professions and may reduce employment opportunities. in this context, i want also to mentioned that the commission will adopt – it is planning, but will adopt in a month, on 21 october – the internal market strategy, and the key element of the strategy will be to address remaining barriers to services, and to further advance the integration of the single market in services, thus facilitating the economic activities of liberal professions. i would be very pleased to discuss this further with members once the internal market strategy is adopted, because it is a very comprehensive document with some new points added by us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. the commissioner is not here. i would like to thank you for your comments on the role of the professions in the european internal market. mr tajani has very clearly and distinctly stated how much importance we as the epp group attach to the professions in all their variations, and that is why i am also concerned that certain rules of a consumer protection nature are now being dealt with in individual infringement proceedings against various member states. however, i agree with you that we must of course increase mobility in the european internal market and in that respect these infringement procedures will also provide clarity as to whether these measures are permissible or not and in that respect i look forward to the decision of the european court of justice in these proceedings. however, madam commissioner, our main concern is, of course, that the professions, by their very nature and in view of their self-government, should be able to maintain their position in a european internal market. and as the commissioner responsible for the traditional part of the internal market - as opposed to the digital single market - you are, of course, the commissioner who must also speak out in defence of the professions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank mrs elissavet vozemberg for her report, even though i cannot support all the points she has made. the eu's competence is being exceeded in some areas. but the report also makes some good points when we talk about women's careers in science and university. i am pleased that we have succeeded in winning a majority of the house for my amendment which puts a special emphasis on mothers in science and research. if we go beyond the concept of gender gap and ask about the background, we end up with families. mothers with children are also disadvantaged in universities and in science. children are a clear career risk, and parenting time is considered a gap in the resume. that has to change, even for us here in europe. parenting is paid work and must be paid for with a salary. we must finally get this through, not to the detriment of governments, but to the detriment of the general public, who will have to bear these costs, as will pensions. we also need more child-friendly universities, we need universal child care close to mothers, close to parents.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. big left cinema, but ultimately just a left gender geek. i will vote against it. this report breaks the principle of subsidiarity by almost 90%. education policy - i repeat - is not the eu's job. europe's hands have not lost anything in the curriculum of our children, indeed my children. especially when it comes to questions like sexology. transsexuals behind the teacher's desk in front of kids in first grade? it would be more important to have a mother of seven, a single parent, or an unemployed father who can tell their children how they're coping with their lives and what family means. non-peer teachers representing a group estimated at six to ten thousand people in germany. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. and even if i repeat myself: europe has so many problems, yes, so many challenges to overcome. the last thing we need is eu sex education in our primary schools. i would ask you to stop annoying us with reports of your own initiative like this, which are beyond your competence.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the president of the commission on the situation in the union (2015/2738 ((rsp)). ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the state of the union is taking place today for the fifth time in the european parliament. but for the first time it is a debate which is being presented by a president of the commission who has been decisively appointed by this house. that is why this is the first speech by a commission president appointed by this parliament after the european elections. i think that it is rare for a speech to be expected with greater excitement in this house. we should also be proud today, as a whole, that this first state of the union address is being delivered by a president of the commission who has been elected to office by a new procedure, a procedure which has made our union more democratic. this house is also the seat of european democracy this morning. we are certainly facing an epochal challenge in dealing with the refugee crisis, in dealing with the extremely difficult situation in some member states, also in view of the part that europe must play in helping to resolve and help to end the wars that are taking place on our doorstep. the debate on the state of the union is also a review of the working relationship between the commission and the european parliament. but it is also the moment when the two community institutions can show together that they are ready to take up the challenge in the spirit of community action. the commission is also very keen to see the european parliament's role in the process of european integration. president juncker, i now give you the floor to present the proposals you have for european union in the house of european democracy - here in the european parliament. president. - mr juncker, you have the floor.
president of the commission. i am not going to go into the details. mr president of the council! i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it is a pleasant duty, and not only a duty, but a pleasure, for me as president of the european commission, to make a speech on the state of the european union here in this house for the first time in my short life! i have made a number of speeches on the state of the nation, i believe 20 times, as prime minister of luxembourg. i have always been told after the speech that it was good, in tone, in rhetoric - opinions differed on the content - but that it was too long, and that is exactly what will happen to me today in this house. i was unable to prepare this speech under normal circumstances for reasons some of you can guess. but i will do my best to bring this speech to a happy ending. this speech is being held within the framework of the framework agreements defining relations between the european parliament and the european commission. the rules state that the president of the european commission must give parliament an answer in the first half of september on what has been accomplished, completed and worked out in the past year and on what is to be done in the next few months, including in your house. it is about the priorities for the future work of the european commission and therefore also partly of the european union. i have therefore sent the president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, and the prime minister of luxembourg, as president of the council presidency, a letter setting out the priorities of the european commission, and i have also sent this letter to your house, accompanied by a description of the development of the ten priorities which guide the work of the commission. i shall not deal with all these questions here today. i refer you - this is rude but necessary - to the written information which the commission has sent to the president and the presidency, signed by myself and by first vice-president frans timmermans. and i would also refer you to the accompanying documents which attempt to make this exchange of letters more comprehensible. i am the first president of the european commission to have been elected directly, not by a roundabout way, by election and by a vote of assent of the european parliament. i have made it clear from the outset, including in my speech of candidature here in the european parliament on 14 june last year, that the commission which i have the honour of chairing will be a more political commission and therefore the president of this european commission will also be a political president, because of the more democratic procedure for his appointment. when i say political, i mean political in the noble sense of the word! we are men of politics. we are not politicians. i don't like the expression "french people talk about politicians". we are, you and us, you and me, of the men of politics. when i say political, it does not mean that we want to politicize everything. but i want to express my firm belief that this is not the time for business as usual. (applause) so i would ask you very kindly not to pay attention to how often i say the word 'social' in my mouth, my heart is full of social, not to pay attention to how often i say 'sustainable', not to pay attention to how often i say 'economic', 'financial', 'budgetary'. this is not the time for such often empty speeches. this is the hour of honesty. the time has come for more honesty in europe, and that is why this is a speech about the great open questions facing the european union. and that's what i'm going to focus on. our european union - although i am not inclined to be pessimistic - is not in a good state. it is not appropriate for the president of the commission to be making a mockery of the representatives of european democracy, that is to say, the representatives of the peoples of europe. the european union is not in a good state. there is a lack of europe in this european union, and there is a lack of union in this european union. (applause) we have to change that. and we need to change that now, in a collective effort. the mandate you have received from the european electorate requires this, and so does the mandate i have received from this house. (call from the efdd) i don't know why you are becoming nervous when you are talking about the european union. (call from the efdd) you can interrupt me from time to time. i will not at each time respond to what you are saying, because what you are saying is worthless. (loud applause) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, whatever work programmes or legislative agendas say, the first priority today is, and must be, addressing the refugee crisis. since the beginning of the year, nearly 500 000 people have made their way to europe. the vast majority of them are fleeing from syria, the terror of islamic state in libya or dictatorship in eritrea. the most affected member states are greece, with over 200 000 refugees, hungary, with more or less 150 000, and italy, with 120 000. the numbers are impressive. for some they are frightening. but now is not the time to take fright. it is time for bold, determined and concerted action by the european union, by its member states and by its institutions. first of all, before other considerations, it is a matter of humanity and of human dignity. and for europe it is therefore a matter of historical fairness. (applause) we are all europeans here (a ukip member: no!) ok, i notice that you think that you are not europeans, well said, but not well done. this is not a time to take fright. it is a time of humanity and of human dignity. we europeans all of us, i thought before the interruption should remember well that europe is a continent where almost everyone has at one time been a refugee. our common history is marked by millions of europeans fleeing religious or political persecution, from war, dictatorship, or oppression: huguenots fleeing france in the 17th century; jews, sinti, roma and many others fleeing germany during the nazi horror of the 1930s and 1940s; spanish republicans fleeing to refugee camps in southern france at the end of the 1930s after their defeat in the civil war; hungarian revolutionaries fleeing to austria and elsewhere everywhere in europe after their uprising against communist rule was suppressed by soviet tanks in 1956; and czech and slovak citizens seeking exile in other countries including mine after the oppression of the prague spring in 1968. hundreds of thousands were forced to flee from their homes after, and during, the yugoslav wars. that was by the end of the last century -- not centuries ago, but by the end of the last century -- in the last decade of the 20th century. have we forgotten that there's a reason there are more mcdonalds living in the united states than the entire population of scotland? that there is a reason the number of o'neills and murphys in the u.s. exceeds by far those living in ireland? have we forgotten that 20 million people of polish ancestry live outside poland, as a result of political and economic emigration after the many border shifts, forced expulsions and resettlements during poland's so often painful history? have we really forgotten that after the devastation of the second world war, 60 million people were refugees in europe? that, as a result of this terrible european experience, a global protection regime the 1951 geneva convention on the status of refugees was established to grant refuge to those who jumped the walls in europe to escape from war and totalitarian oppression? we europeans should know, and should never forget, why giving refuge and complying with the fundamental right to asylum is so important. the fundamental right to asylum is one of the most important international and european values. we should not forget that. (applause) i have said in this house and elsewhere in the past that we are too seldom proud of our european heritage and our european project. yes, in spite of our fragility, of our weaknesses our self-perceived weaknesses today it is europe that is sought worldwide as a place of refuge and exile. it is europe today that represents a place of hope, a haven of stability in the eyes of women and men in the middle east and in africa. this is something i have to say this here to be proud of and not something to fear. (applause) i would like to thank europe today, despite many differences among the member states, is by far the wealthiest place and the most stable continent in the world. those who are criticizing europe - european integration, european construction, the european union - have to admit that this is the place of peace and that this is the place of stability and we should be proud of this. we have the means to help those fleeing from war, terror and oppression. i know that many people will now want to say that this is all very well, but europe cannot take everyone. it is true that europe cannot house all the misery of the world. but let's be honest and put things into perspective. there are certainly a large and unprecedented number of refugees coming to europe at the moment. however, they still represent just 0.11% of the total european union population. in lebanon, by comparison, refugees represent 25% of the population in a country which has only one fifth of the wealth we enjoy in the european union. who are we that we never make this kind of comparison? who are we? (applause) let's be clear and honest with our citizens, who are often worried: as long as there is war in syria and terror in libya, the refugee crisis will not simply go away. we can build walls, we can build fences, but imagine without being demagogic imagine for a second if it were you, your child in your arms, the world you knew torn apart around you, there is no price you wouldn't pay, there is no wall you wouldn't climb, no sea you wouldn't sail, no border you wouldn't cross if it is a war of barbarism and the so-called islamic state that you are fleeing. we are fighting against islamic state. why are we not ready to accept those who are fleeing islamic state? we have to accept these people on european territory. (applause) i would like to thank it is high time to act to manage the refugee crisis because there is no alternative to this. there's been a lot of finger pointing in the past weeks. member states have accused each other of not doing enough or doing the wrong thing and, more often than not, fingers have been pointed from national capitals towards brussels. brussels is always accused if member states are failing. if member states are not doing their job, brussels, the commission, the european parliament, are accused of not doing their job. (applause) we could all - not all, but the majority of this house, myself and my commission - be angry about this blame game. but i wonder who that would serve. being angry does not help anyone. blaming others does not help the refugees and the migrants, and the attempt to blame others is often just a sign that politicians, policymakers, sometimes legislators, are overwhelmed by unexpected events. instead, we should rather recall what has been agreed that can help in the current situation. it is time to look at what is on the table and move swiftly forward. we are not starting over. since the early years of this century, the commission - not mine, the commission of josé manuel barroso - has persistently tabled legislation after legislation to build a common european asylum system, and the parliament and the council have enacted this legislation, piece by piece. the last piece of legislation entered into force only in july 2015, two months ago. across europe we now have common standards for the way we receive asylum seekers, in respect of their dignity, for the way we process their asylum applications, and we have common criteria which our independent justice systems use to determine whether someone is entitled to international protection. but these standards need to be implemented entirely and respected everywhere in europe in practice. this is clearly not the case. before the summer not after the summer, but before the summer the commission started the first series of 32 infringement proceedings to remind member states of what they had previously agreed to do. that is a matter of credibility. we are legislating and we are not implementing. it is a matter of credibility that member states implement and respect commonly agreed international and european laws. (applause) i would like to thank a second series of infringement proceedings will follow in the days to come. common asylum standards are important but they are not enough to cope with the current refugee crisis. the commission, parliament and the council said in the spring that we need a comprehensive european agenda on migration. we proposed this as a commission in may, and it would be unfair to say that nothing has happened since then. we have tripled our presence at sea. 122,000 lives have been saved since then. every life lost is one too many, but many more have been rescued that would have been lost otherwise an increase of 250%. we should be proud of that performance. twenty-nine member states and schengen-associated countries are participating in the joint operations coordinated by frontex in italy, greece and hungary: 102 guest officers from 20 countries; 31 ships; three helicopters; four fixed-wing aircraft; eight patrol cars, six thermos-vision vehicles and four transport vehicles. this is a first measure of european solidarity in action, even though more will have to be done. we have redoubled our efforts to tackle smugglers and dismantle human trafficking groups. cheap ships are now harder to come by, leading to fewer people putting their lives in danger in unseaworthy boats. as a result, the central mediterranean route has stabilised at around 115 000 arriving during the month of august, the same as last year. we now need to achieve a similar stabilisation of the balkan route, which has clearly been neglected by all policymakers. the european union is therefore the number one donor in the global efforts to alleviate the syrian refugee crisis. around eur 4 billion has been mobilised by the commission - that means by parliament too - and member states in humanitarian, development, economic and stabilisation assistance to syrians in their country and to refugees and their host communities in neighbouring lebanon, jordan, iraq, turkey and egypt. indeed, just today we launched two new projects to provide schooling and food security to 240 000 syrian refugees in turkey and, by the way, i would like to applaud the efforts of jordan, of turkey and of lebanon. (applause) these countries, far poorer than we are, are making efforts we should applaud and recognize in moral and in financial terms. we have collectively committed to resettling over 22,000 people from outside europe over the next year, showing solidarity with our neighbours. of course, this remains very modest too modest by comparison to the herculean efforts undertaken by turkey, jordan and lebanon who are hosting over four million syrian refugees, but i am encouraged that some member states are now showing their willingness to significantly step up our european resettlement efforts. this will allow us very soon to come forward with a structured system to pool european resettlement efforts more systematically. it has to be done and it will be done. where europe has clearly under-delivered is on common solidarity with regard to the refugees who have arrived on our territory. to me, it is clear that the member states where most refugees first arrive at the moment, these are italy, greece and hungary cannot be left alone to cope with this enormous challenge. (applause) this is why the commission already proposed an emergency mechanism in may - not now, back in may - to relocate initially 40 000 people seeking international protection from italy and greece. this is why today we are proposing a second emergency mechanism to relocate a further 120 000 people from italy, greece and hungary. this has to be done in a compulsory way. (applause) i call on member states to adopt the commission proposals on the emergency relocation of altogether 160 000 refugees at the council of interior ministers on 14 september. we are not talking about 40 000, not 120 000, we are talking about 160 000. that is the number europeans have to take charge of and have to take in their arms, and i really hope that this time everyone will be on board. no poems, no rhetoric, action is what is needed for the time being. (applause) what is happening to human beings -- we're talking human beings, we're not talking about numbers -- coming from syria and libya today could easily be the case in ukraine tomorrow. are we making selections? are we distinguishing between christians, jews, muslims? this continent has had a bad experience of drawing distinctions on the basis of religious criteria. there is no religion, no belief, no philosophy when it comes to refugees and to those we let in. (applause) i would like to thank winter is approaching. do we really want to have families sleeping in railway stations in budapest and elsewhere, in cold tents during the night, or on shores on kos? we are in charge of the winter period for those who have to flee their countries for the reasons i have mentioned. of course, relocation alone will not solve the issue. it is true that we also need to better separate those who are in clear need of international protection and therefore very likely to apply for asylum successfully, and those who are leaving their country for other reasons which do not fall under the right of asylum. this is why today the commission is proposing a common eu list of safe countries of origin. this list will enable member states to fast-track asylum procedures for nationals of countries that are presumed safe to live in. the presumption of safety must, in our view, certainly apply to all countries which the european council unanimously decided meet the basic copenhagen criteria for eu membership notably as regards democracy, the rule of law, and fundamental rights. it should also apply to other potential candidate countries in the western balkans, in view of their progress made towards candidate status. i am aware that the list of safe countries is only a procedural simplification. it cannot take away and i would act strongly against that the fundamental right of asylum for asylum seekers coming from albania, bosnia and herzegovina, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, kosovo, montenegro, serbia, and turkey. but it allows national authorities to focus on those refugees who are much more likely to be granted asylum, notably those from syria. and this focus is very much needed in the current situation. a list of safe countries does not take away asylum rights from those people coming from the countries listed. that is important. we are not neutralizing the geneva convention. asylum is a right. (applause) the countries on the list of safe countries have to know that if they are taken off this list because fundamental rights are not guaranteed in these countries, they are losing their chance to join the european union. these two things go together. safe list, yes, but it is time we prepared a more fundamental change in the way we deal with asylum applications, and notably the dublin system that requires that asylum applications be dealt with by the first country of entry. we need more europe in our asylum policy. we need more union in our refugee policy. a true european refugee and asylum policy requires solidarity to be permanently anchored in our policy approach and our rules. this is why, today, the commission is also proposing a permanent relocation mechanism, which will allow us to deal with crisis situations more swiftly in the future. that means more swiftly than in the past. a common refugee and asylum policy requires further approximation of asylum policies after refugee status is granted. member states need to take a second look at their support, integration and inclusion policies. the commission is ready to look into how eu funds can support these efforts, and i am strongly in favour of allowing asylum seekers to work and earn their own money while their applications are being processed. (applause) i would like to thank labour, work, being in a job, is a matter of dignity. those who are working are finding again the dignity they had before they left and so we should do everything to change our national legislation in order to allow refugees and migrants to work from day one of their arrival in europe. a united refugee and asylum policy therefore requires stronger joint efforts to secure our external borders. fortunately, in the european union we have given up border controls between the member states of the schengen area to guarantee the free movement of people, a unique symbol of european integration and this schengen system will not be abolished under the mandate of this commission. (applause) i would like to thank but the other side of the coin to free movement is that we must work together more closely to manage our external borders. this is what our citizens expect. the commission said it back in may, and i said it during the election campaign, together with martin, together with guy and with... (suggestions from the floor)... no, no, i am not pointing at mrs keller; i was just thinking of mr tsipras. i'm not confusing the two! is jose bove there? yes, i saw him all the time. - what's up? we need to strengthen frontex significantly and develop it into a fully operational european border and coast guard system. that is certainly feasible, but it will cost money. the commission believes that this is money well invested. this is why we will propose ambitious steps towards a european border and coast guard before the end of this year. a truly united, european migration policy therefore means that we need to look into opening legal channels for migration. but let's be clear: this will not help in addressing the refugee crisis we are currently in. but if there are more, safe, controlled roads opened to europe, we can manage migration better and make the illegal work of human traffickers less attractive. let us not forget that we are an ageing continent in demographic decline. we will be needing talents, talents coming from everywhere in the world. over time migration must change from a problem to be tackled to a well-managed resource. to this end, the commission will come forward with a well-designed legal migration package in early 2016. this is highly important. migration has to be legalized. it is not sufficient to protest against illegal immigration. we have to organize legal ways to europe. (applause) i would like to thank a lasting solution will only come if we address the root causes, the reasons why we are currently facing this major refugee crisis. our european foreign policy must be more assertive. we can no longer afford to be ignorant or disunited with regard to war or instability right in our neighborhood. we have to find a solution. maybe we are too weak to achieve a solution to the libyan problem. we have to address the syrian crisis in a more solution-oriented way. i call for a european diplomatic offensive to address the crises in syria and libya. we need a stronger europe when it comes to foreign policy. i am very glad that federica mogherini, our highly determined high representative she is high representative because she is highly determined has prepared the ground for such an initiative with her diplomatic success in the iran nuclear talks, and i would like to congratulate federica on that extraordinary performance. (applause) in order to facilitate the work of our high representative, federica, the commission is today proposing to establish an emergency trust fund, starting with eur 1.8 billion from our common eu financial means to address the crises in the sahel and lake chad regions, the horn of africa, and the north of africa. we want to help create lasting stability, for example by creating employment opportunities in local communities, and thereby addressing the root causes of destabilization, forced displacement and illegal migration. i expect all eu member states to pitch in and match our ambitions. we need this emergency trust fund in order to prevent future crises. (applause) and we need higher development aid budgets. i do not like the expression development aid cooperation budgets. it is not normal that member states of the european union are reducing their budgetary efforts when it comes to development aid. they have to be increased. (applause) i do not want to create any illusions that the refugee crisis will be over any time soon. it will not and we have to be aware of that. but pushing back boats from piers, setting fire to refugee camps, or turning a blind eye to poor and helpless people: that is not europe. (applause) europe is the baker in kos who gives away his bread to hungry and weary souls. europe is the students in munich and passau who bring clothes for the new arrivals at the train station. europe is those standing at the munich railway station applauding and welcoming refugees. (applause) the europe i want to live in is illustrated by those who are helping. the europe i do not want to live in is a europe refusing those who are in need. the crisis is strong and the journey, of course, is still long. i am counting on you, in this house in the house of european democracy and on all member states to show european courage going forward, in line with our common values and history. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and for many of you, very dear friends, i realize that i have already exceeded the time normally allowed to the president of the commission when he speaks of the state of the union; but in view of the state of the union, i need time and would therefore like to say a few words about greece, which is very dear to me. the debate we had on the greek problems, which are also our own, was a difficult debate because i had to explain to the prime minister of the time that in the euro zone there are nineteen democracies and not only hellenic democracy. public opinion, parliamentary opinion and the convictions of one and the other are also reflected in the expression, notably parliamentary, in the eighteen other democracies that make up the euro area as a whole. the commission has very often been brutally attacked by some member states for being invested in the solution, if i may say so, since there is no definitive solution to the greek problem yet. i would like to repeat here what i said when i first stood before you, namely that the european commission has a duty to look after the general interest. the commission's failure to deal with the greek case would have been an unforgivable weakness, a mistake with multiple repetitions, if it had not done what it did. we have paid, me first, for our person since we have been attacked by those who always know better than the commission and the european parliament how to do things. i did not want to leave the search for a solution to the greek problem to the brussels bureaucrats, as vulgarly, stupidly and stupidly as their work was extraordinary even during the holidays. we are being attacked, frans timmermans, vice-president dombrovskis, pierre moscovici and others are looking for a solution to the problem we were facing. some say that the commission and its president would not have had to say that grexit was not an option. it was not an option. he was constantly saying that grexit was not an option. otherwise, le grexit would have happened. (applause from the centre) i told mr tsipras and the greek authorities that they should not consider this phrase as meaning that they would be saved anyway. i told alexis tsipras i wasn't the magician who would pull a white rabbit out of his hat if there was nothing else. i'm not going. he knew, he had to know and he knew that grexit was an option, but not an option to mention publicly. so, on this point, we have done what we had to do and i have always considered, you know, that the greek problem was not only a problem of consolidating public finances. it is not only a problem of structural reforms, although all this is very important, but it is also a problem of the growth prospects of this country, which the union should be pleased to count among its member states. i have not liked the comments throughout the last month that greece should get out of the euro, get out of the european union and be considered a country that would not be serious. the greeks, especially the low-income greeks, are people who work and who do everything to make their country progress. we should also have more respect for the efforts of the greek nation than we have so far. (applause from the centre) i would like the programme on which we have agreed to be respected by every greek government, past, present and future. if, this time, the commonly agreed rules are not respected, the reaction of the european union and the euro zone will be different. this time, we'll have to do what was agreed. in this programme, there are 35 billion which the commission is in the process of organising to boost the economic and therefore social growth of the hellenic republic and i would like this offer, which is not a gift of generosity, to be accepted by all the parties concerned in greece. the crisis is obviously not over with the solution to the greek case, as there are 23 million unemployed europeans in the european union and more than 17 million in the euro zone. the crisis is not over. it will be completed on the day when europe will be fully employed. sometimes i wonder why a continent as rich as europe would distance itself from this normal rule which should be respected by all men and women. the young people of today and the adults of tomorrow have the right to full employment. we are not far from the ambition to make europe a continent where the triple a social has its full value. it will therefore take all fair to return europe to full employment. it's not impossible if we fly. (applause from the centre) this presupposes that we remain faithful to this virtuous triangle: fiscal consolidation - essential, irreplaceable or without alternative, as another would say - structural reforms and investment. we have proposed to your assembly and to the council an investment plan worth 315 billion. this investment plan is being implemented in detail and in a general manner. i believe that all those who lead european countries, all economic actors, companies, business leaders and trade unions must become fighters for growth in the name of europe. i do not want the investment plan, which unfortunately bears my name for reasons of convenience, to be a failure. i would like all economic and social actors and all political actors to be involved in the implementation of this investment plan, which is a plan for europe, for employment and for growth. (applause) but all that, ladies and gentlemen, is not enough. we must define the route, the path, the way to take and the way to follow. that is why we have proposed the programme of the 'five presidents' on the deepening of economic and monetary union. i said 'five presidents' because i had chosen, not in a moment of weak autobiographical but for reasons of principle, that the president of the parliament, in his personal name, should be associated with the drafting of this report. the european parliament, all the same, is a parliament and it is as fair as if the future of europe and of economic and monetary union could be made without the direct and immediate participation of the european parliament. i had therefore chosen to associate your president, martin schulz, with our work during which he presented his personal points of view. i do not like all of them, but it has also brought into the interinstitutional debate the positions so often expressed by your parliament, and in particular those expressed by our friend othmar karas, whose report, which bears his name justly, explains that the presence of the european parliament in the future of economic and monetary union should be more pronounced than it has been so far. yes, europe needs an economic government. i'm not saying today for the first time. i have been saying this since 1991, when, as a young finance minister, i, together with nicolas schmit, who is also one of the most important figures in my country and beyond, chaired the intergovernmental conference on economic and monetary union. four people spoke for the economic government: jacques delors, who remains a model, pierre bérégovoy, who never ceases to mourn its disappearance, philippe maystadt, who is there for us to enlighten us at every moment when it is necessary, and myself, who am always there because i am a little eternal in this function. we are in favour of an economic government of europe. we wanted to inscribe in the treaties the rules which, economically, should govern the euro zone. we were not understood by those who today demand that the economic government should be applied immediately. welcome to the club. it was proposed 25 years ago. we are going to propose, in the context of this deepening of economic and monetary union, a deposit guarantee system. i believe that this common deposit guarantee system is necessary. we are certainly going to do it in the form of a reinsurance system, not an integral mutualisation, but we still need an extra dose of security for european savers and depositors and for ourselves and our neighbours. i am in favour of the establishment of a european treasury. it is obviously necessary to discuss all the details, since it is a slogan devoid of any precise content, but it seems to me essential that the euro zone has a european treasury which will rely on the means of the european stability mechanism. as regards fiscal policy, the commission will have the opportunity to ensure that the principle of exchange of information on direct taxation is rapidly adopted by the council. i have held this conviction since i was 17 or 18 years old, even though some people think i have temporarily lost it, that the benefits should be taxed in the country where they are made. the commission will ensure that this principle of common sense is applied everywhere in europe. (applause from the centre) just as we must act in favour of this simple rule which has proved its merits and whose non-respect has now revealed its defects, so it must be that throughout europe the rule regains all its value, namely that for the same work on the same territory, the same wage is required; it is an ancient rule which must be revised. (applause from the centre) the commissioner for social affairs, marianne thyssen, has proposed a european social rights socle during the first half of 2016. the european union is not only the currency, the european union is not only the greek case, the european union is not only ukraine, the european union is also a common base of social values which we must adopt together and we will do it! (applause from the centre and the right) i have a serious problem because i know you'd like me to stop, but i'm in the middle of my speech. i would therefore quickly add that, in my opinion, the european parliament must remain the parliament of the euro zone. we are not going to continue this debate. (applause) i believe that it is necessary to improve the international representation of the euro zone. it is not normal that in the bretton woods institutions, and particularly in the international monetary fund, europe should be seen as a puppet, a low-level court where everyone is playing in the direction he thinks is appropriate. the president of the eurogroup must represent, and he alone, the euro area. we must have a unique representation at the international monetary fund! (applause) the recommendations by the countries formulated by the commission and the council must be better respected in the member states of the euro zone. i think we have reduced the number of the three country-specific recommendations we have put to the council. it is not logical to demand that the member states undertake 20 reforms in the course of a year. it's not credible, it's stupid and it's stupid! we therefore agree on three reforms to be implemented by the member states. but the latter must take the initiative and there must be national appropriation for the reforms proposed by the council and the commission. i would like to say a word on the united kingdom because, when campaigning, i was advocating a fair deal with britain and i am totally convinced that we will have a fair deal with britain. i have set up within the structures of the commission a specific group for the negotiations with britain under the leadership, by the way, of a british citizen who is a european. that is not a contradiction. (interjections from ukip members) i was hesitating between jonathan ford and nigel farage and then i made the choice, i went for jonathan ford and nigel of course wants to be his biggest supporter, because one is british and the other is british and european so you have to come together, and you will, of course. of course the united kingdom and the british government and british policymakers are right when they criticize the european union for being too bureaucratic and for the overdoses of regulation. it is my commission's programme to reduce regulation and, under the leadership of first vice-president frans timmermans, we are doing everything we can to make sure that regulation in the european union will be better. but better regulation does not mean destruction, does not mean no rules, does not mean that the european union should stand aside from everything that has to be organised in a proper way in europe. we have launched the digital single market and the energy union. we are, step by step, progressively completing the internal market because the internal market is not complete. we are taking initiative after initiative in order to promote entrepreneurship in europe. these are all requests of the british government and, more loudly than that, of the british policymakers. the problem is that this commission cannot be asked to do that because this commission is doing exactly that, and i would like our british friends to support the initiative of the commission in that very field. the same applies to the need we see to conclude as many trade agreements with leading nations in the world, including the transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip). i am in favour of the ttip treaty. (applause and boos) but, as in the case of britain, i am not in favour of giving up european standards and european principles. the freedom of movement of workers cannot be touched. the same applies to the transatlantic partnership agreement. we have our basic values, we have our principles and these principles cannot be given up during these negotiations with the united states. i am strongly in favour as is cecilia malmström, our excellent trade commissioner of a maximum of transparency, but i am against publicly rehearsing negotiating positions of the european union. the more we tell those we're negotiating with what we intend to do if our positions are not accepted, the weaker we are. in national negotiations i am in favour of transparency, but i am also in favour of seriousness, and negotiations have to be conducted in a serious way. i should say something about ukraine. we support the democratic efforts of the current president of ukraine. we have to support this man because he has the courage of action, and in that country this is not an easy thing to do. those who have doubts about our involvement and our engagement in the ukrainian case will be proven wrong because we have offered to cover, in so many talks, to president poroshenko, all the needs ukraine was asking for, and we will continue in that way. we have lent eur 3.41 billion in three network financial assistance programmes to ukraine, we have helped to broker a deal that will secure ukraine's wind and gas supplies, and we are advising our friends there on the reform of the judiciary. i will do everything to enable the european council to give visa-free travel rights to ukrainian citizens. if the conditions are fulfilled, it has to be done. as guy verhofstadt was saying months ago in this house, the maidan worries were not only about democracy, about the membership of the european union. people there, and people living in ukraine now, do not want to have a country where corruption is playing the role it plays in ukraine. the ukrainian democrats want a corruption-free country and so we have to attend to them in that field. i would like to say because i am very attentive and i have these things on my radar all the time to our eastern member states, notably in the baltics, that the security and the borders of eu member states are inviolable. i want this to be understood very clearly in moscow. the member states of the baltics and of other countries have to know that solidarity is not an empty word. we're there now and we'll be there if ever this is needed. the baltic states, poland and others - mainly poland and the baltic states - are very important members of the european union and they should not think that we would not be there if in any way their security and their borders were in danger. we have an obligation to protect, if needed, the security of everyone. (applause) i would like to thank (interjection from the floor: with what army?) i don't know if you meant the luxembourg army when you said army. the luxembourg army is an excellent army with 771 soldiers, including the defence minister. the luxembourg army will not be a great help but others can be if needed. i wonder why i like your interruptions, but i like them, because they're inspiring. they remind me what i should have told you before. i will never forget the meeting i had, before being appointed, with nigel farage and his group. it was very supportive, open and frank and not without humor which, by the way, is the only quality we share, but it's something! (laughter) could i have the permission of the president of parliament to distribute the text on climate change, because that is important and i am running out of time. i have been speaking for 72 minutes and 15 seconds, so really i do not want to speak any more. (interjection from ukip members: more!) i have new friends! those sitting in the middle of parliament are saying that they are starting to get tired, but those sitting over there want me to continue.
the member in seat 358 has just put on mrs merkel's mask. you don't have to love mrs. merkel, but you've changed your look, i'll give you that. (applause from the centre and the right) i think it's the colleague buonanno. mr. buonanno, you've had your show. now, please, sit down. (mr buonanno, wearing a face mask, goes to the podium and shakes the hand of mr juncker, president of the commission.) (cheers and applause) this too is financed by european taxpayers.
president of the commission. – the european parliament is the place where you can meet everyone. unity in diversity. (applause and laughter) i would like to say a few words, given the time constraints we have, on climate change. the text of my speech will be distributed to a larger public in the coming hours. i simply wanted to say that i think that we have to be very ambitious, as the european union, on our way to paris. i think we are making major efforts in the eu, probably not enough, but more efforts than others are delivering. we are tackling the root causes of the next migration wave in the coming decades if we address climate change problems in a proper way, because tomorrow we will have climate refugees and we have to be aware of that. we should not be surprised and astonished if the first climate refugees come to europe. we have to act now because we do not have any time to lose. that is why i want the european union and the member states to be as ambitious as possible on our way to paris. but i would like to say here that i do not think that the european union should sign just any deal. the eu’s priority has to be to adopt an ambitious, robust and binding global climate deal. that is a european duty and we have to fight for that and to raise our voice against those in our member states who do not share that view. europe is not neutral when it comes to climate change. europe has to be an example and a model for others. (applause)monsieur le président, mesdames, messieurs, voilà l'état de l'union mais pas dans son intégralité. je n'ai pas voulu vous déclamer un poème sur l'union européenne. à la fin d'un discours, dont j'admets qu'il fut trop long, bien qu'il ait été brutalement écourté, je vous le redis: je crois que l'union européenne n'est pas dans un bon état, mais je crois aussi qu'il n'est pas de mon devoir de ne rien faire d'autre que de critiquer l'état de l'union européenne. nous avons aussi réalisé, au cours de l'année écoulée, un certain nombre de réformes qui sont substantielles à mes yeux. nous avons adopté, je veux parler de la commission, un agenda européen sur la migration. je n'accepte pas qu'on dise, en matière de migration, que la commission a été inactive. ce matin encore, j'ai entendu à la télévision allemande des ministres bavarois, mais fédéraux, critiquer l'absence de la commission. j'étais en vacances, c'est vrai. n'étiez-vous pas en vacances? vous aviez raison! sur mes dix jours de vacances, j'ai travaillé durant quatre jours sur le dossier de la grèce et trois sur celui de la migration. la commission avait fait des propositions en mai. on ne le dit pas assez! nous ne découvrons pas aujourd'hui un problème que nous avions découvert en mai. d'autres sont en train, par l'intermédiaire d'images terribles, de découvrir ce problème. nous, nous le connaissions! (applaudissements) nous avons adopté plusieurs mesures complémentaires à apporter au marché intérieur, notamment en matière d'énergie et de marché des capitaux. je remercie chaleureusement mes collègues de la commission pour la bonne entente que nous avons entretenue. ce n'est pas chose évidente, ceux qui, ici, furent premier ministre le savent: l'entente au sein d'un exécutif connaît ses limites. à la commission, l'amitié, la collégialité, voire la complicité, sont très grandes. je suis fier de la commission que j'ai l'honneur de présider parce que nous avons pu, au cours des premiers mois de notre mandat, envoyer aux deux législateurs les grands projets législatifs et réglementaires, projets qui figuraient parmi les dix priorités sur la base desquelles j'ai été élu par cette auguste assemblée, élection dont je reste fier. tout n'est pas parfait, nous ne vivons pas dans le meilleur des mondes. le monde serait meilleur si nous étions meilleurs et donc c'est à cette tâche que nous devons nous atteler. écoutez! je connais les faiblesses de l'europe, mais je sais quelle serait l'énorme faiblesse continentale si l'union européenne n'existait pas. alors, vieux européens, ne baissons pas les bras! continuons! (applaudissements)
i thank you very much, mr juncker. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this is a personal message to you: we all know in this house that your mother passed away last sunday and your father is in the hospital in serious condition. i would like to thank you from the bottom of my heart, on behalf of all my colleagues, for putting your duties above your personal feelings today, and at the same time express our sincere sympathy and sympathy with your difficult personal situation and our condolences on the death of your wife's mother. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr president of the commission! the council has not yet adopted the common position. first of all, on behalf of the epp group, i would like to join the president in expressing his condolences. and i want to thank you for this political speech. we elected a political president of the commission a year ago, and today he has presented an analysis of the situation in europe and put forward clear proposals. thank you for that. i would also like to start with the most pressing issue at the moment, the question of migration. when we were in milan with the epp group, the italian minister of the interior, mr alfano, was our guest and he told us a story: he visited a refugee home in southern italy and spoke to a family, a mother who said that she had left africa with five children and had arrived in italy with a living child. he said he'd looked into empty, broken eyes. so it's important to first of all to make it clear that when we talk about numbers, behind every one of those numbers are people! and that is why europe must live up to its humanitarian claim. we must help people who knock on our external border, we must guarantee help. as the president of the commission has said, if poor countries like lebanon and jordan succeed, then a rich continent like europe must also succeed in fulfilling its humanitarian responsibilities. ladies and gentlemen, we have heard statements and i would like to stress once again that, for example, slovak prime minister fico said that he would only accept non-muslims in his country, only 'christians'. that is why i would like to make it clear once again, on behalf of the christian-democratic group, the epp: we in europe are not proud of having invented rights for christians, christian rights. we in europe are proud to have invented human rights, and these must be defended, no matter where one comes from. in the last few days, we have been hearing that europe is failing, and we have all read that in the newspapers! i was interviewed by the corriere della sera a few days ago and then i got an e-mail from franco frattini, the former european commissioner for home affairs, who reminded me that he had already proposed the concept of safe third countries in the commission ten years ago and that it was not possible to get support from the member states at that time. ladies and gentlemen, what is failing here is not europe, as we see from the commission's proposals. it is not brussels or strasbourg that is failing, but national egoism on this continent! nevertheless, we must keep our eyes on the facts. last year, two-thirds of all people who arrived in europe were rejected after a rule of law process, not accepted as refugees. that is why my group is also in favour of not losing sight of the question of 'return', the question of external security controls and safe third countries. people expect us to apply and enforce existing asylum laws and to fight abuse. ladies and gentlemen, this is the task of migration. i should like to say a few words on the second major theme of this parliament's term, namely the economic situation on our continent. we need jobs, we need economic future, especially for our young people. the internal market has been mentioned. it has always created growth and prosperity, and that is why we should go forward with ambition. we need free trade, we should not argue that free trade takes away something from us, but we should see that free trade, global free trade, has always helped us as europeans. we must fight youth unemployment, and that is why we await the commission's mobility package. i would also like to say a few words about our farmers who are working under difficult conditions at the moment. we, at european level, stand by our farmers and will help them to set the right priorities in this difficult market situation. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. if you want to learn how to create a future, look to ireland, spain or portugal. we have great growth rates there. and if you look at greece, you can see that we have now gone through months of wasted time. we have had tough debates here in parliament with prime minister tsipras about the future of greece, but i say very clearly: he has now earned respect for his change of course, and he has made it clear that without reforms and a stable budget, the country has no future. and politically, i can say that tsipras has proven that leftist ideologies have failed on this continent, and that is why podemos is also going down in spain. ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot to be said. i would like to make it clear that we must not forget this conflict. we are open to the visa issues that the president of the commission has indicated, and we need more investor protection, of course, so that investment in ukraine in the stable regions is also made. we cannot accept putin's frozen conflict. and i would just like to send a message to the uk that we, as the epp, are open to the proposals. we believe they can make europe better and we will participate constructively in the discussion. the commission is a political commission. mr president of the commission, you have succeeded in concentrating europe on the essential issues. they have made it possible for us to move forward in the political approach and, above all, to achieve results. the most beautiful figure is that last year 1.65 million new jobs were created on this continent. and this is also linked to the work at european level. thank you very much. you have put forward a programme, you are working on it and you will continue to have the support of your epp group for this programme.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: on behalf of my group, i would like to express my sincere condolences and our sympathy for you as a human being, as jean-claude juncker. i would like to assure you of that, and i do not think i am alone in this parliament. but now to the speech that was given here today, which was about describing the state of the european union and addressing the most important core issues. i would simply like to make two points on the migration problem: it is well known that zeus kidnapped the asiatic princess europa. and if we're being honest, we'd have to admit that this princess was the first immigrant to europe. she gave us the name for the continent. these are our roots as europeans. you yourself have pointed out that it is an illusion to believe that the refugee problem will be over in the foreseeable future. yes, it is true: it is an illusion. we are facing one of the biggest problems of this century, and i think it needs to be treated on par with our fight against climate change, as a collective problem, as a global problem. we must act together here. i understood your proposals above all as a message, a message to all those who - whether in this chamber or under the responsibility of member states - concealedly or openly and openly take a racist stance and believe that europe must continue to be isolated, that europe must not be cosmopolitan, that europe must first of all look after its own interests and that it must reconsider its national and nationalist positions. we shall examine your proposals in detail, some of them seem to me to be a good step, others do not go far enough. but we shall have the opportunity to continue the discussion. i am in favour of all the demands that we must create legal immigration opportunities, that there must be a fair, solidarity-based attitude and that we must not stop at a quota system that puts the individual needs of people out of the question. family reunification and such things have to be considered. we take your word that this is about enforcing the geneva refugee convention, the individual right to asylum, that nothing can be taken back here, on the contrary, that they must be defended. that will remain our position throughout the debate. but i would now like to talk about greece and our way of trying to solve the problems within the union, particularly because there is a connection here. the refugee question and the greek question are the culmination of this. the images of the island of kos and other greek islands have shown how closely linked the question of whether a state can function at all, whether a state can assume its responsibilities, including in relation to refugees, is. the tabus have been broken in dealing with greece, its people and its government. a country has been humiliated in a demonstrative way. it also became clear: the round of euro-finance ministers has taken over the government in the european union. the heads of government are the executors, the european parliament is in the audience and the commission has become, if i may say so, a fool in the eyes of the government. we have to end this state of affairs! and if you are serious about this, we are on your side, because we do not want the heads of government to impose their nationalist and petty views here and ultimately destroy the european union as well. (the president called for mrs zimmer to conclude.) you said we shouldn't count every word. i didn't do that in your speech. but i've looked at what's in the priorities. there is nothing in the priorities about the social priorities. that's our problem. please change that! change that, because that's our common mission. it cannot be that this remains outside our common action.
mrs. zimmer, please. i find that absolutely unacceptable. they do it all the time. i am very generous with my speaking time, but you have exceeded your speaking time by two minutes. and then to say that because mr juncker has spoken for a long time, i can simply speak for a long time here - i simply do not think that is acceptable. and to you - those who have been clapping rhythmically - i want to say that you are not the parliament's watchmen, and i do not need your support at all.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, commissioners, on behalf of the council, i would first of all like to thank president juncker for his state of the union speech, for his lucid analysis of the situation, for his vision of the challenges for the union, for having said things as they are, but above all for his important proposals and initiatives in the various fields. you are right, mr president, it is not time for routine but for courageous, exceptional and innovative actions that call upon the capacity of our union that we europeans are capable of in truly historic moments. unfortunately, we are living in a historic moment, as we did, for example, at the time of the fall of the wall and the reunification of the european continent. europe is facing a major crisis which requires of it a real capacity for action, a real political will, a solidarity which is the hallmark of the european spirit. president juncker emphasised the situation of migration and refugees. we are living in a critical moment for the union. recent events have confirmed this and have taken on a scale we had not anticipated. they have seemed to surpass us, they challenge our values and, it is true, put our instruments and our rules to the test, and certainly do not allow us today to procrastinate or delay. in the context of the justice and home affairs council in july, the presidency devoted all its efforts to the implementation of measures concerning, in particular, a temporary and exceptional relocation and resettlement mechanism. i do not hide from you that this task has not been easy and that it has not yet been sufficient. we need to go further and faster. the new proposals presented today by president juncker are an important contribution to the ongoing process and further council meetings are planned. we must all be aware of the urgency and the need to join forces and not divide. europe is perfectly capable of handling this refugee crisis, which, as has been said, represents 0.11% of the population, which is not huge. europe can overcome this crisis if it acts in accordance with its values, if it overcomes its shortcomings, in short, if it is able to demonstrate a genuine common political will. the presidency is working tirelessly to find solutions with all member states. it will do all it can to bring them together in close cooperation with the institutions, the commission being the first of these. this will not happen without the efforts of everyone, and i will come back to this in a moment during our debate on migration and refugees in europe. mr president, we have had the opportunity to present the other priorities of our presidency, which coincide very largely with those mentioned by the president of the commission. it is true that we must not forget the questions of unemployment, the recovery that must be encouraged and supported, nor the problem of youth unemployment. we have an investment plan which must now be implemented courageously and rapidly, as the president has said. the luxembourg presidency is very keen on this point, and i know that we are on the same page, mr president, on the deepening of the european social dimension. i listened to what you said about social dumping: "for the same work, the same pay". it is important that free movement is preserved, and to preserve it, of course, we must create this balance between social rights on the one hand and economic freedoms on the other. we support the commission in its efforts to stimulate the internal market, particularly in the digital sector, but it is also true that this sector will transform not only our industries and services but also the way we work and, therefore, our labour market. it will therefore have a fundamental impact on qualifications and skills, which we also need to address urgently. in the context of the major challenges of sustainable development, namely the fight against global warming by mobilizing our efforts in the run-up to decisive international conferences, cop 21 is a key event because the stakes are crucial. let us not forget, as has been said, that this refugee crisis is fundamentally the result of other crises of terrifying conflict in europe's neighbourhood. besides, when i look at our neighborhood, it's not very stable. it's a neighborhood that's been torn apart by crisis and conflict. europe must therefore be an international player. the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) plays a fundamental role with federica mogherini and i believe that we must commit ourselves but also invite the international community to commit itself, particularly at the level of the united nations.
mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council! first of all, thank you very much, jean-claude juncker, for making it clear that europe is more than just a project, that it is a cause, that it has foundations, that it is about values. and perhaps this refugee problem is an opportunity to bring it back into the spotlight a little bit more. there's history, there are orders, there are values. so we must help, not just with words, but with action. it is also true that the member states certainly have a lot of homework to do. it is also true - and i am grateful for that - that it has been pointed out that there is a second side, namely safe countries of origin. it is also to ensure that repatriation is organised, to combat the traffickers. it is also right that it has been pointed out that the subject is complex and that it is not settled with just one answer. for example, that even legal immigration does not solve these problems, but that it is also seen in a differentiated way. thank you for that. now, time was short, and that's why i was missing something. i was missing the part that has to answer how we actually finance this huge challenge and how we ensure that the citizens of europe are going down this path. this will only work if europe is prosperous, if full employment is organized. this is not just a greek problem. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the financial compensation for the disadvantaged regions. i only asked these questions, i had no more time. but concern is an important prerequisite if you want to solve the other big problem. i expect the commission to act with the same consistency.
i would like to thank you very much, mr juncker, for your comments. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
we need more europe and more union within the european union to deal with the current difficulties and the refugee crisis. the refugee crisis in particular needs to be tackled by the whole of europe together. we need a solution based on solidarity between the member states as soon as possible. and this must then be enforced consistently, including by means of sanctions where appropriate.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on migration and refugees in europe (2015/2833 ((rsp)).
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have to say, ladies and gentlemen, that i was told this morning by mr juncker that i am not european. because i'm not at a train station, and i'm not welcoming! why don't i say hello? because i believe that all of us, including the high commissioners, have a mandate from the european voters, from the voters of our people, to preserve and defend the right to our homeland, the right and identity of our peoples. and i claim the same right for the refugees. the people who come here have a home, they have the right to a home and to preserve their own identity. and you can't solve the problems by integrating these people, because then they don't go back. no, they have a home, and they should return to it one day. so they should invest in their homeland, that they have a future there and not with us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are constant fears that too many migrants could come to europe. too many, and mr juncker gave a figure this morning: 0.11% minus zero point eleven. and most of the refugees are still coming from countries like syria and eritrea. they're fleeing war and persecution. against this background, the often emotional debate on so-called poverty migration has only one goal: to create a mood against all refugees. it is shameful that a large part of the council is clearly shying away from such slogans, instead of facing up to the common responsibility of showing solidarity, both internally and externally. that has to change now. the council must act next week. follow the commission's current proposals!
mr president, the state of the union needs to be measured according to how we treat those people in europe who are most in need and there the picture is rather mixed. on the one hand we have all those citizens who help refugees, who donate, and not just this past weekend but over the years and months in different groups. on the other hand though, we have member states which just blame each other, which are not doing what they are supposed to do. i think we need to decide which side we want to support, which of those two europes we want to bring forward and promote. there i think the people of europe have shown us the way; they are the ones who deserved the nobel peace prize the european union has won. the member states, the governments of the member states and the european union should follow the way that our citizens have shown. our citizens are much further ahead than we think they are. let us promote their solidarity, their initiative; let us follow their lead.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, migration happens because there are reasons for it and as long as there are reasons for it. no one can decide, not even you, who should migrate and who should not. there are no good and bad refugees, as the eu tries to divide today. no wall, no fence, no trench, no tear gas, no police force can stop people from escaping. and instead of the repression that is recurring in the eu and in the member states, we need a clear 'yes' to accepting and integrating refugees. refugees must be welcome in hungary, in slovakia, in the czech republic and, please, in poland, regardless of their ethnicity and regardless of their religion. and another thing: we reject the extension of the so-called safe countries of origin because many people in these countries are not safe at all, like the roma in the western balkans, like the dissidents in turkey. this undermines the right to asylum - which we consider unacceptable - and war is not the only reason for flight. you have to look at that. we already think that the eu and the member states have made a somewhat short-handed decision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. i welcome the presidency of the council! i am not going to go into detail. first of all, i would like to congratulate commissioner avramopoulos on the whole package which is ultimately his and thank him for the fact that we are now receiving clear proposals from the commission at such a timely time. secondly, i would say that it is essential that asylum standards, at least minimum standards, are respected in all our member states so that refugees, wherever they arrive, including in the area of redistribution - if we decide to make a joint redistribution - will at least be treated and accommodated properly. secondly, we urgently need this crisis mechanism, because without a crisis mechanism the european union cannot deal with it sensibly when crises occur and when there are flows of refugees coming to us because of war and need. i would like to say that i am not in favour of the idea of a european asylum system, but i would like to say that the european parliament has a right to be consulted on this matter. we must separate things out properly and also work out the legal aspects in a clean way, and give the member states the possibility to react accordingly in their labour markets as well, rather than simply declaring every frontier open. this is a state of discontent within the european union which you would be producing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. i do not want to repeat everything that has already been said. but i want us to also send a signal from here to the local authorities who are dealing with the refugee problem, under very, very difficult circumstances, whether in kos or lesbos. and this is especially true for those outside the eu. the serbian government and the serbian local governments are doing more for our refugees at the moment than some european governments within the eu. and i think that's a thank you, from this house as well. and the same, of course, applies to the international red cross, samaritan international, whatever the organizations that are active there are called. we should invite them here one day to say a real thank you, because we can be more proud of them than of some of the prime ministers of our own union.
the next item is the voting time. i am not going to go into detail. services estimate we'll need about three quarters of an hour. if you help us, we might be able to go a little faster.
mr president, we have an oral amendment here which has been agreed among the shadow rapporteurs. it is basically an update in relation to what we heard this morning about commission president juncker’s new proposal. members will find it in writing in their voting list, because it is a bit difficult to read out, but basically we say that a further relocation of 120 000 applicants from italy, greece and hungary should be completed on the basis of the new commission proposal. that is the essence of it. members will find the wording that is specifically going to be voted on in their voting lists, so please read it as it is very complicated. (the oral amendment was not accepted)
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the proposal to change the name of the delegation for relations with the palestinian legislative council to 'delegation for relations with palestine', as i am always in favour of politically and diplomatically correct solutions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to speak in summary on all the fisheries requests. usually it's a win-win situation: it sounds good, we make a partnership agreement and we provide development aid at the same time. i have accepted the motions, but i still have a bad feeling about the whole thing and would therefore ask the committee responsible not to be too lax in the necessary follow-up. we must of course see that, firstly, we do not catch more fish than we can, and secondly, we must of course also see just as thoroughly whether the money we pay for it is actually being put into development projects as we imagine. not that it gets stuck in administration or any other channels. this was the basis on which i was able to give my consent to the motions. i think and hope that the follow-up to these applications is also in good hands in the committee responsible.
in writing. ‒ i support fisheries partnership agreements. they are of immense importance to the non-eu countries guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they are the financial services of the fisheries sector and thus the driving force behind their economic development. the people who live there are not able to use their natural fish resources themselves. we also consider these agreements to be important because they enable the european fishing fleet to fish in the waters of the partner countries. this will strengthen cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau.
in writing. ‒ i support fisheries partnership agreements. they are of immense importance to the non-eu countries guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they are the financial services of the fisheries sector and thus the driving force behind their economic development. the people who live there are not able to use their natural fish resources themselves. we also consider these agreements to be important because they enable the european fishing fleet to fish in the waters of the partner countries. this will strengthen cooperation between the eu and guinea-bissau.
in writing. i abstained, together with my group, the committee on the environment, when voting on this motion for a resolution. the agreement does not take account of the political situation in the guinea-bissau region and ignores the difficulties of the fisheries sector, such as the change in fish stocks. in view of these shortcomings in the report, i abstained from voting on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on a fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde: fishing opportunities and financial compensation, as i strongly support the positions and proposals of my group colleague peter van dalen.
in writing. ‒ i support fisheries partnership agreements. they are of immense importance to the non-eu countries guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they are the financial services of the fisheries sector and thus the driving force behind their economic development. the people who live there are not able to use their natural fish resources themselves. we also consider these agreements to be important because they enable the european fishing fleet to fish in the waters of the partner countries. this will strengthen cooperation between the eu and cape verde.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on a fisheries partnership agreement with cape verde: fishing opportunities and financial compensation, as i strongly support the positions and proposals of my group colleague peter van dalen.
in writing. ‒ i support fisheries partnership agreements. they are of immense importance to the non-eu countries guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they are the financial services of the fisheries sector and thus the driving force behind their economic development. the people who live there are not able to use their natural fish resources themselves. we also consider these agreements to be important because they enable the european fishing fleet to fish in the waters of the partner countries. this will strengthen cooperation between the eu and cape verde.
in writing. i voted for this report with my colleagues from my group, the ecr. the fisheries agreement between the eu and cape verde is vastly expanding fishing opportunities. the agreement also provides financial support for the cape verdean islands and includes measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. the agreement also guarantees the conservation and sustainable use of fisheries and partnerships between companies and organisations developing economic activities in the fisheries sector. as a result, the local fisheries in cape verde will benefit.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on a fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar: fishing opportunities and financial contribution, as i support the positions and proposals it contains in the context of a sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. ‒ i support fisheries partnership agreements. they are of immense importance to the non-eu countries guinea-bissau, cape verde and madagascar, as they are the financial services of the fisheries sector and thus the driving force behind their economic development. the people who live there are not able to use their natural fish resources themselves. we also consider these agreements to be important because they enable the european fishing fleet to fish in the waters of the partner countries. this will strengthen cooperation between the eu and madagascar.
in writing. the cor group and i voted in favour of the fisheries partnership agreement with madagascar (fpa) as it provides fishing opportunities for eu vessels in the waters of the republic of madagascar. under this agreement, france, spain, portugal and italy will receive tuna fishing licences. the agreement also commits to improving local knowledge of fish stocks, local fisheries policy development and the fishing fleet. the agreement also contains a human rights clause in line with the cotonou agreement and is seen by the commission as a way of strengthening bilateral relations between the eu and madagascar.
in writing. ‒ today, the so-called marrakesh agreement was voted on. the amendments concerned the treaties relating to the world trade organisation. this organization (wto) is a very good institution, which also ensures that world trade is conducted in a fair way. (it is a pity that there is still no similar organisation for the financial sector.) i have always believed that the european single market is the best thing about the eu. if free trade within europe is good for individual countries, then global free trade should also be good for the whole world. i was able to agree to this proposal easily today. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ i support the amendments to the marrakesh agreement establishing the world trade organisation and the related implementation of trade facilitation reforms. we need instruments like these to help global trade in developing countries and to promote their economic development.
in writing. ‒ today, the so-called marrakesh agreement was voted on. the amendments concerned the treaties relating to the world trade organisation. this organization (wto) is a very good institution, which also ensures that world trade is conducted in a fair way. (it is a pity that there is still no similar organisation for the financial sector.) i have always believed that the european single market is the best thing about the eu. if free trade within europe is good for individual countries, then global free trade should also be good for the whole world. i was able to agree to this proposal easily today. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. together with my group, the ecr, i voted in favour of the who trade facilitation agreement. the new agreement will bring clear and immediate economic benefits to developing countries. the text addresses shortcomings and burdensome administrative requirements, which are particularly problematic for developing countries. the cor is a strong supporter of the multilateral trading system and believes that the agreement is of great benefit not only to developing countries globally but also to the eu and its member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision authorising the kingdom of belgium and the republic of poland to ratify the budapest convention on the contract for the carriage of goods by inland waterway (cmni) and authorising the republic of austria to accede to that convention, as i consider that the political and technical proposals made therein are the right step.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the authorisation of belgium and poland to ratify the budapest convention and to the authorisation of austria to accede to it. their participation will bring benefits to citizens and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the proposal for a council decision introducing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece today, as i cannot support some of the proposals made by mrs keller in it.
in writing. ‒ the resettlement of 40,000 refugees within the eu is an important first step in our refugee policy. it is important to apply this quota system to other refugees. it is up to the member states to reach agreement on this.
in writing. ‒ due to the increasingly large number of people entering the eu irregularly from greece and italy, a proposal has been set forward to relocate approximately 40% of the total number of applicants for international protection from syria and eritrea who arrived on these soils in 2014. thus, this proposal aims to relocate 24 000 asylum seekers from italy and 16 000 from greece. in 2015, the movement of migrants across the eu did not slow down. in fact, it was the largest since the second world war, and a proposal for a permanent relocation scheme has been put forward. it is important to share the burden that this crisis has provoked with greece and italy, both of which have to confront new emergencies on a daily basis, and to support a just relocation of refugees within the eu. furthermore – and this is my ceterum censeo – i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ the keller report, which refers to the commission proposal of 27 may 2015, aims to help improve the situation of refugees from syria and eritrea, who have an average acceptance rate of more than 75% in the eu, and to relieve the burden on the first host countries greece and italy. the central means of relief is to be a european-organised allocation of quotas among the eu member states. the report is problematic for several reasons. firstly, the quota concept is not feasible at present because of the lack of technical conditions. the implementation of existing rules on admission is not very successful. the schengen system does not allow for long-term control of internal borders. secondly, the report calls for refugees not to be allocated to a country against their will. this system results in only a few countries with attractive social benefits being targeted. thirdly, the very generous german policy is a disincentive and, moreover, a violation of european law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. many are not ready for that. fourthly, contrary to the idea of subsidiarity, the grounds for european recognition of asylum seekers should be harmonised. these and other reasons make the report appear unrealistic. i have nevertheless decided to vote in favour of this resolution because there is undoubtedly a humanitarian problem which requires a european solution.
in writing. ‒ the report aims to 'resettle' refugees from syria and eritrea elsewhere, to relieve the burden on the first host countries, greece and italy. the central means of relief is to be a european-organised allocation of quotas among the eu member states. i agree with this report, since i recognize that greece and italy are among the countries with a comparatively high level of pollution. other eu countries should show solidarity in this situation. as refugees from syria and eritrea have, by far the most often, suffered persecution, they are entitled to asylum or protection under the geneva refugee convention. i think it's right that we provide that protection. the report, despite my approval, is also problematic in some respects. firstly, the quota concept is not feasible at present because of the lack of technical conditions. the implementation of existing rules on admission is not very successful. the schengen system does not allow for long-term control of internal borders. secondly, the report calls for refugees not to be allocated to a country against their will. this system results in only a few countries with attractive social benefits being targeted. thirdly, the very generous german policy is creating a false incentive for migration to germany. other countries which have not been included or consulted at all are now to be given quotas to support this policy. many are not ready for that.
in writing. ‒ the keller report, which refers to the commission proposal of 27 may 2015, aims to help improve the situation of refugees from syria and eritrea, who have an average acceptance rate of more than 75% in the eu, and to relieve the burden on the first host countries greece and italy. the central means of relief is to be a european-organised allocation of quotas among the eu member states. the report is problematic for several reasons. firstly, the quota concept is not feasible at present because of the lack of technical conditions. the implementation of existing rules on admission is not very successful. the schengen system does not allow for long-term control of internal borders. secondly, the report calls for refugees not to be allocated to a country against their will. this system results in only a few countries with attractive social benefits being targeted. thirdly, the very generous german policy is a disincentive and, moreover, a violation of european law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. many are not ready for that. fourthly, contrary to the idea of subsidiarity, the grounds for european recognition of asylum seekers should be harmonised. these and other reasons make the report appear unrealistic. i have nevertheless decided to vote in favour of this resolution because there is undoubtedly a humanitarian problem which requires a european solution.
in writing. ‒ the keller report, which refers to the commission proposal of 27 may 2015, aims to help improve the situation of refugees from syria and eritrea, who have an average acceptance rate of more than 75% in the eu, and to relieve the burden on the first host countries greece and italy. the central means of relief is to be a european-organised allocation of quotas among the eu member states. the report is problematic for several reasons. firstly, the quota concept is not feasible at present because of the lack of technical conditions. the implementation of existing rules on admission is not very successful. the schengen system does not allow for long-term control of internal borders. secondly, the report calls for refugees not to be allocated to a country against their will. this system results in only a few countries with attractive social benefits being targeted. thirdly, the very generous german policy is a disincentive and, moreover, a violation of european law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. many are not ready for that. fourthly, contrary to the idea of subsidiarity, the grounds for european recognition of asylum seekers should be harmonised. these and other reasons make the report appear unrealistic. i have nevertheless decided to vote in favour of this resolution because there is undoubtedly a humanitarian problem which requires a european solution.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a council decision introducing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, in agreement with my group. the report was a long time in the making and has been modified to the last detail in view of the commission's relocation mechanism proposed by the commission. i am opposed to the relocation of asylum seekers, war refugees and economic migrants according to a quota and the ideas of bureaucrats. the eu's common asylum policy has morphed into an immigration policy. it is a massive violation of the principle of subsidiarity. the actionism of the commission and the majority of parliament only shows the old principle that in a crisis the answer is always more eu. it does not take into account that the crisis was caused by the wrong eu rules. the dublin agreement has failed and does not correspond in a healthy way to the schengen agreement. the european union is not going to save freedom of movement by setting resettlement quotas. germany in particular should refrain from sending back to its european neighbour in the east foreigners who do not want them.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the urban dimension of eu policies today because i consider the field of urban development to be very important, taking into account all its social, economic and environmental challenges and the increasing phenomenon of rural migration, and because i consider the report's opposite approach to be unprofitable, ignoring the needs and environments of urban communities and metropolitan regions in europe.
in writing. ‒ in the context of urbanisation in europe, we need to seek and implement measures for an efficient eu urban agenda to strengthen the urban dimension in eu policies. the different interests of cities need to be taken into account more and the urban policy challenge addressed.
the explanations of vote are closed. i would like to thank the interpreters and other services in particular and hope that everyone has something to eat.
vice-president of the commission/ high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, let me start by saying that the middle east faces multiple challenges today, and we have discussed some of them this morning. syria, yemen, libya: the list is long. still, whatever the competing pressures might be, i strongly believe that we cannot put aside the middle east peace process. it is crucial for the israelis and for the palestinians, and it is also crucial for regional peace and security. it is crucial for the international community. further deterioration on the ground is happening at the moment, whether in gaza, jerusalem or the west bank, and this has a deeply negative impact on an already-troubled region. the fact that this is the oldest conflict does not make it any less relevant. on the contrary, in a regional situation which is becoming increasingly worrying, this is the piece of the puzzle that we have to look at if we want to start somewhere. we all know that the conditions for relaunching final-status negotiations are not in place at this moment. there is a deep lack of trust on both sides and wide gaps on what a final deal should look like. but, as we have seen on iran, with bold thinking, with a creative approach, patient diplomacy and an openness to compromise, and with a lot of teamwork from the international community, even the most difficult issues can be settled. putting in place the conditions for a resumption of serious talks based on mutual steps is our first priority. negative developments on the ground in this very same month only underline the importance of this work. we must not, and we cannot, lose what we have all worked so hard to build since oslo: the development of institutions of a future palestinian state through the palestinian authority. this includes essential services for ordinary palestinians and vital cooperation, first of all in the security sector, between israel and palestine. but today we have a complete lack of process and prospects and, i would say not least, the presence of daesh in the region. we will not live forever in the post-oslo mode: we cannot take that for granted. if prime minister netanyahu and president abbas fail to work together now, the future will be dangerous for both israel and the palestinians. and for the region it will be even more dangerous than it is now. a fundamental change in the political, security and economic situation in gaza, including the end of the closure, is an essential starting point. the parties must urgently make progress towards a lasting ceasefire, based on their agreements in cairo last year, and reach an agreement which both ends the gaza closure and addresses israel’s legitimate security concerns. moving towards real reconciliation – national reconciliation – was on the agenda one year ago. it seems not to be on the agenda anymore. i believe, however, that we cannot afford to put aside a national reconciliation process in the palestinian camp, including palestinian authority control in gaza, starting with the control of border crossings. what we are doing is pushing both the israelis and the palestinians to show leadership and to refrain from any action which would lead further away from the two-state solution. we have revitalised the quartet in recent months, in line with our commitment to building a new regional and international framework for peace. we have appointed an eu special representative to work full-time again on eu efforts to re-open a political perspective for israel and palestine. you know him, you have met him, and he is constantly working on this in jerusalem with all our international partners and with the parties. we work closely, and he personally works closely, with the quartet colleagues to press both sides, on the one hand, to take courage in setting out improvements on the ground – concrete legal steps that can change people’s lives – and, on the other hand, to try to rebuild trust, of which there may be less today than at any time in the past. we can aim for measures which empower the palestinians, strengthen security cooperation and address israel’s concerns. these are practical, concrete steps which, if implemented on the ground, would move the situation towards, instead of away from, the two-state solution. of course, such steps cannot be a substitute for resolving the final-status issues. we know that very well, but i believe this is the best way to get there in what is a very tough political climate both on the israeli side and on the palestinian side. it can be a way forward and a way out of the stalemate. however, we are also rethinking the way in which the quartet has been working, or not working, so far. you know that two out of four of the quartet envoys – the eu and the un envoys – are new ones. we have started to work very well together, and also with the other two colleagues. the arab countries can play a leading role in strengthening and giving incentives to the process. the arab peace initiative demonstrates the potential, which is even stronger now than when it was launched, for a wider regional settlement to end the conflicts: the israeli-palestinian one and the arab-israeli one. this is why the quartet envoys went together to cairo and oman and will visit riyadh in the coming days. the key arab countries, and the foreign ministers that i met just yesterday, have made very clear to me that they are ready to play their role in this regional and international framework to try to restart the engine of the process. that is why un secretary-general ban ki-moon has already sent invitations to the foreign ministers of the quartet to meet on the fringe of the general assembly in new york at the end of the month, and, in the context of the initiative that we have taken as the european union, has also extended an invitation to the foreign ministers of egypt, jordan and saudi arabia, and to the secretary-general of the arab league. we are working to prepare the ground for a genuine regional framework that can help the parties to take some steps. again, i know i am not defining the final-status solution, but i believe that, from the situation we face today of complete despair to the dream of hope and a final solution to the conflict, we have to build the bridges that will enable us to get there. we have to create the conditions on the ground, and the political conditions. we are moving forward to build this credible international and regional framework to support the parties and to regain and rebuild confidence between themselves and in the international community, for we know that this is needed as well. the two parties need to find the courage and the space to start trusting one another but, most of all, they need a regional and international framework in which they can find trust. this too has to be rebuilt. but ultimately it is not going to be the regional or the international framework that resolves the crisis. only the parties themselves can take the fundamental decisions. they can either advance together in the future, or they can allow the two-state solution to move beyond reach, with all the negative consequences that would bring for both sides and for all of us, including us europeans. leadership is needed, and the european union is ready. all the major stakeholders agree that we face the same challenges in the region. we face regional threats, including the rise of extremism, terrorism and the failing states. peace in the holy places would send such a powerful message to the world; you would really have to be blind not to see it. in the current regional environment we cannot afford to stand still. if we do not move forward, we will see violence coming back again – we are already seeing it from time to time – and we will see the two-state solution become less and less viable, if not impossible. i believe the international community, the palestinians and the israelis cannot afford that, because we do not know what is going to come next if we close the window for peace that oslo opened. the time has come to provide real long-term security and hope for the israelis and the palestinians – knowing full well that these words sound empty to both at this moment. the time has come for both sides to make the necessary compromises and, most of all, to show leadership. this is what is needed. the time has come for us to put all our efforts into supporting this process and helping it to start again. these days call for the whole european union to play its part, and i am glad that, as i understand it, i will be able to count on the full and united backing of this parliament for the european union effort to ensure that this conflict –the oldest one in the region – does not become a forgotten one at a time when we all need, more than ever in the decades ahead, to solve it strategically.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not madam vice president! ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as mrs mogherini and the european union have gained new authority through the successful negotiations on iran, this can also be a powerful foundation for the two other crises in the region, the war in iraq and syria and the middle east conflict. and that is interwoven! i believe that the settlement of the conflicts in syria and iraq can only be achieved if we now work together with the russians, the americans, the united nations, partly also under the leadership of the european union, the saudis and the turks and the iranians to get to the table to put an end to this proxy war. and this, again, is because this can only be achieved if the quartet - with a strong european union role - in cooperation with the arab league or the member states of the arab peace initiative, moves forward and makes a fresh push to achieve the two-state solution. the aim must be a viable state of palestine and a secure jewish state of israel. and i think that's part of the fact that there is actually something that both sides have to achieve bilaterally here. this includes an end to settlement policy and an end to hamas violence. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process. we also need the support we need to give to a viable state of israel, to a functioning administration, to the fight against corruption, in order to have an economically viable state that can play its part. i think, therefore, mrs mogherini, that we should wish you well on your trip to new york to launch this initiative there. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to two questions on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not if i may answer the last question. if i understand the french and the british correctly, they want to bomb isis, not assad. there is, i think, a slight difference in the assessment. there's a division of labor here. germany has supplied weapons to the peshmerga to fight isis - effective weapons - and is also training the peshmerga to be able to act against isis, for example. i believe we need to have a common approach to fighting isis. i said that in my speech: the most important thing is that we win the turks, the saudis and the iranians to end the proxy war there and bring them into a common strategy here, because isis has become a threat to all of us. the european union may well have a good job here in bringing about something like this. because without getting the proxy war parties out of it, we're not going to get it. and we will have a struggle of regional powers for influence under the pretext of a religious dispute. we must also tackle this together with these countries. with the vision of a solution for gaza, we have to talk about whether what israel did was proportionate. but israel has been fired upon from gaza. that has been noted, and it must be noted. we have to see that some of the construction materials - cement - in gaza were not used to build houses, but to build tunnels. this too must be taken into account in a balanced assessment. now, to draw up a list, so that israel would then have to pay compensation to the european union to rebuild it, does not seem to me to be a solution that would make progress here, but would only be a revival of hamas, which has also prevented its political authority from ramallah so far from having the regime there and being able to rule the country. the palestinian authority must have jurisdiction over all of palestine, including gaza. i think that is a sensible starting point for a discussion.
mr president, in order to solve this conflict, first of all, it does not make sense to just replicate the conflict here in europe and give advice only on the basis of party affiliation to one side, but in order to solve the conflict it also does not help to put half efforts into solving the conflict. so i am very much in favour of putting full effort into the solution of this conflict by a pathway where we remove the hurdles from these peace negotiations, by lifting the blockades as one very important step, also by strengthening the back of the palestinian authority, reaching unity for the fundament of the palestinian state and making the responsibilities clear to both sides with regard to violent groups, which are undermining the peace process. i think that the european union could give a very big effort to this and put this peace process into a position to solve it, and i think that it is urgent. as has been said by some colleagues, these are partners; these are partners we can talk to. the palestinian authority as well as the israeli government, but also egypt and jordan: partners we have to negotiate intensively with now, because there are other actors in the region which are not at all working for stability in the middle east, and that has to be tackled altogether. so we have to use the moment to solve the big task and the big challenge of this conflict which is underlying and which, of course, is a hurdle to a further solution of conflicts which are urging us to quick action at the moment to solve also the situation of those people living in these regions.
i have to say, madam president, the european union is committed to the implementation of the lisbon strategy. the israeli-palestinian peace process has been overshadowed by isis and the syrian crisis. this is also because there is no real prospect of a peace process at the moment. at the moment, there are no official negotiations between israelis and palestinians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am very grateful to you for your intensive work to restart peace talks, which you have been doing since the beginning of your mandate and for which you deserve our full support. not only this house, but all of europe must speak with one voice. only then can we put our full weight behind the goal of a two-state solution. the israeli settlement policy is a major obstacle to this. the continuous construction of new settlements in palestinian territory makes a peaceful solution more difficult every day. i wish you a successful negotiation and i would like to return to your opening remarks that we have already seen in iranian diplomacy that it is possible to tackle the most complicated and difficult issues. for that, much strength and much success! thank you very much. you have our support.
i have to say, madam president, my little speech is a hiccup. in 1968, a year after the six-day war, i visited israel as part of a study trip. i saw a country that pulsated! i saw historic cities that we have known since childhood: jerusalem, bethlehem, tel aviv, akron, hebron, nazareth and the lake of gennesaret. i saw boys in jerusalem and the west bank with alert faces and clever eyes. i thought this was gonna be a good thing. and today we are further away from that hope than ever before. i get the impression that politicians on both sides are torpedoing the balance because they're profiting from the status quo. when yitzhak rabin was assassinated, israel and palestine lost a beacon of hope for reconciliation and peace. israel and palestine need a new yitzhak rabin! what can the eu do? perhaps, to borrow a word from madame mogherini, she can build bridges for a new yitzhak rabin. that would be my dream for this wonderful region and its brave people.
i have to say, madam president, i have to say, madam commissioner, i thank you, mrs mogherini, as the new eu's external representative, you are the face of a new european role in world politics. europe has a special responsibility towards israel. europe stands with israel, the only state governed by the rule of law in the greater middle east, in the peace process. unlike my colleagues, i know that benjamin netanyahu has once again offered peace talks to the palestinian transitional government on behalf of israel. and with a clear commitment to the two-state solution two states for two peoples. i therefore find the discussions here in the house, in which israel is referred to as an aggressor or an occupying power, all the less helpful. measures such as the mandatory labelling of products from israeli settlements in the eu internal market are a continuation of israel's isolation. and i warn us against political naivety with iran. just today, iran's leader ayatollah ali khamenei prophesied in online media that israel will not survive the next 25 years. he rejected further deep cooperation with the west. if we do not rejoice too soon, if we remain a reliable partner of israel, then we will create peace. so no labelling is required! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
arne gericke (ecr), answering a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i believe that israel has a great task in this region. i know that the gaza strip has been handed over to the palestinians. there were greenhouses, there were water systems, which have been smashed by the new residents who are there. as for labelling, i once worked for a clothing store. there we sewed new labels into the goods for kuwaitis. they said, "this product is not made in israel, and the materials are not made in israel". what are we? what are we selling ourselves for? i don't think israel deserves to be treated like this.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we, the left of the united left, are firmly in favour of the conclusion of the agreement with iran, and we thank all those involved, including you, mrs mogherini. it is perhaps the most important agreement we have concluded in recent years. it also proves that persistent negotiation is worthwhile, that it is worthwhile to talk to each other again, and that escalation, war, sanctions are really not the solution - and certainly not for long. and we need, and i want to make this very clear, a nuclear-weapon-free iran, yes, of course. but we also need a nuclear-weapon-free zone throughout the middle east. that must be an important objective too, and i also believe that israel in particular could benefit considerably from it. one last one: the agreement also marks the beginning of a new chapter in relations between iran and the west. and to do that, we must start the human rights dialogue immediately. we promised that to all the victims in iran who were killed or who are still suffering under the regime, and i think this is where we have to start, this has to be at the top of the agenda, and we should be strong for this now.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr boştinaru, you have given very good explanations and reasons for this agreement, but do you really think that the explanation that an american foreign minister cannot be wrong is a really good one?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i would also like to thank the high representative and her team. as we do not often speak highly of you, i would like to include your predecessor, lady ashton, who has also done a great deal in this matter. i know! it's just a start. i know! there are still many problems. no, there's no need to be naive. i know! it may be too soon to rejoice. and yet, this agreement is building hope, hope for détente in the region and between the west and iran. it also gives hope for a better future for the people of iran. i want to take this opportunity to also make it clear that i very much hope that it can lead to a de-escalation between iran and israel. i am sure that after careful study this insight will also increase in the israeli government. i would like to repeat with some clarity what we have said many times in other places: the security of israel remains a matter of parliamentary concern, and it is undoubtedly our highest priority. it is also a victory of diplomacy, and we don't have too many victories to celebrate in the framework of diplomacy. in this respect, it is also a sign of hope. let me close by thanking two. one is secretary kerry. i must now smile a little about your question, it could have come from me if it had not been a party friend of mine who said that. but that the secretary of state of the united states, despite considerable opposition in his own country, has followed this line so strictly with all of us - we are, i think, indebted to him. i hope our colleagues in congress will not unfairly leave him out in the rain. and finally, i would also like to thank the russian foreign minister - you would be surprised if i didn't - and minister lavrov, because it makes it clear that if we act together, if we tackle problems together and if there is a serious will to solve them together, there is a chance for that. i very much hope that in the case of syria, we will soon have another example of this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner mogherini, you have taken the work of your predecessor very seriously and have successfully continued and completed it, and we are grateful to you for that. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is also worth pointing out on this occasion. but i want to bring up something else entirely, a different aspect of this. the agreement includes the gradual lifting of the economic embargo and sanctions. i would remind those who criticise this today that the luggage of foreign investors is always very often - especially when it comes to luggage in repressive countries - also carrying ideas, ideals and values. and that's the idea of the market economy, the idea of human rights and the idea of democracy, and that may be the most valuable aspect of your agreement. because that's what can lead to the change in this society that young people there today are looking for. i am also of the opinion, and this is my ceterum censeo, that the single euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs.– mr president, let me start by thanking all of you for this important debate. one procedural issue that i have raised once already in this chamber is that i think i am in my 11th hour in this hemicycle today. i am very happy that this is the case, but maybe you have to reflect a little bit on the procedures of your work, for its efficiency. this is just a suggestion. let me say, first of all, what many of you underlined. this is first of all a security deal, a security agreement. i can never stress this enough. first of all because the scope of the agreement itself, by its nature, was, and is still, limited – even if the word ‘limited’ is maybe not appropriate because it is historical in itself – but limited to the nuclear programme. so you would not have expected this agreement to cover other aspects of iranian political institutional life or its relations with the rest of the world or its internal roots. it is very important to stress that this is a security agreement, also and first of all for the environment, the region of iran, which is a region that does not enjoy very high levels of security nowadays. we normally look to syria, yemen, iraq and daesh, and we are right to do so, but i would like to mention one other security dimension where the deal could open possibilities for investing in more security. this is afghanistan. we tend to remove issues from the agenda once they disappear from the newspaper headlines, but the fact that we could engage with iran also on the stabilisation of afghanistan, which is another country neighbouring iran, is going to be no less relevant than the rest of the work we will need to do in the middle east. there is another important element when it comes to stressing the fact that this is a security agreement, a non-proliferation agreement. this is first and foremost an agreement for the security of the region: starting with the security of israel, starting with the security of the gulf, but also for our own european security because, as europeans, we were the ones closest to iran of all those sitting at the negotiating table. some of you asserted that it is only ‘10 plus years’ without a nuclear weapon. well, ‘10 plus years’ is a relatively long time and the point will be how we use these 10 years politically. i will come back to that in a moment, but i believe that we have somehow invested in the future of the region and in the future of the country too. i am surprised that nobody in this room mentioned something that has shocked me, at least, very much: the pictures of the young iranians celebrating in the streets. my reading of the political dynamic inside iran is that the current iranian leadership did something that the previous iranian leadership did not do – decided not to do – which is investing in the possibility for their country to open up to international relations of a different kind, not starting with trust, but working to build trust in the process, and also probably investing in their own younger generations. that image of the younger generations of iran celebrating in the streets a diplomatic victory by the current iranian leadership which took a different political decision from the previous one is, i think, something we have to read because it is also in our political interest in europe to invest in that kind of iran. so that is why i say a lot will depend on how we use these 10 plus years that we have gained. our role does not stop here. i said at the beginning that we will keep a role – i personally will keep a role – in the implementation of the agreement. but this is not the only role that we as the european union will have to keep. our work has not finished with the signing of the agreement. first, because we have the implementation phase, but also because we have to work on future political developments inside iran and outside iran – in the region – in which we will need to invest. some people asked the most difficult question: will iran be more cooperative or more assertive and what will be the reaction of the other players in the region? i do not believe we can afford to take a passive approach to this question, to sit and watch what the different players will do. we can, as the european union, play a role in trying to shape the future of relations in the middle east, starting from the role we have played in facilitating the agreement. it will be difficult, it will involve a lot of energy and unity and careful management, but i see this as our role. a strong role on the implementation face and a strong, active role in trying to shape a different kind of regional framework, and also in trying to make it clear for the iranian people who were celebrating in the streets – not, i guess, strictly on the iranian details of the agreement, but because of the symbolic and political meaning of that agreement, namely that iran is opening up. we have to make a political investment of that kind, and we have a narrow path on which to do so. we have to be wise enough, courageous enough, consistent enough to walk down that path together with our partners. this also implies our work on human rights. i mentioned that in my opening remarks, maybe some of you were not here but i mentioned that very clearly. the main reason for my visit to tehran at the end of july was obviously to work on implementation of the agreement. that was the issue on the agenda, that was a follow-up on the deal, but nonetheless i discussed the issue of human rights with all my interlocutors, from the president to the foreign minister to the speaker of the chamber of the parliament. and we agreed in the meetings, especially in the meeting with mr zarif, to have a human rights dimension to our dialogues. if you look carefully at the video of our joint press conference, you will see that he is the one making reference to the fact that we agreed to include human rights in our common dialogue, in our common work. to me, this is highly valuable. it is something new. obviously we have to engage in this direction and you can count on the fact that i will personally do that. i think this is something that may answer the comments many of you made. obviously this is just the beginning, this is the start of a story. it is a beginning and we need to invest in that direction. let me say three final words: firstly on the role of the rest of the partners we had around the table. it was indeed a victory for european diplomacy, but it was also an extraordinary example of teamwork between the european union and the others: the us, where the administration, the white house, and john kerry personally all invested a lot of political capital; russia, which played a key role in achieving this result; and the foreign minister of china. that also helped a lot. let me say – and this i hope this also answers your question, mr president, – that having an international common approach of that kind, having different interests around the table, having different points of view around the table, but managing together to find a way forward and reach an agreement, did indeed also offer hope for the fact that different global dynamics could be possible if we identify common ground and common interests. a natural reflection of that was the consensus in the security council, which is not something that has happened very often in these past few years. so, yes, i do not know if it is a model, but it could also be a way to work on other issues and it could be a way too of rebuilding some degree of trust within the international community. this does not wipe out all the things that keep us far apart from one another, but if we manage to find some common ground on some regional crisis or some global issues, such as non-proliferation where we managed to act together with a view to achieving results that are very much in line with our european agenda, then i think this is positive and we should encourage it. someone said: trust john kerry, trust the european ministers – i do not know. what i do know is that the real point is that we can trust the international community. we did not have just europe or just the us or just whatever around that table. around that table we had, somehow, the international community represented on a clear mandate originating from a security council resolution. that is why i say that this is an agreement that also restores trust in the international and multilateral approach and we desperately need it. this is really the european approach to diplomacy. finally, one word on what marietje schaake mentioned: the fact that the majority of our team, at least, were women. that is true. other women too were playing key roles in some of the delegations, especially wendy sherman, but our delegation, our team, was indeed mainly women and i want to share with you that i was really moved in those hours by the reaction of so many women and girls, and even very young girls, not only in iran, but also in europe. i think that we managed to pass on a good message, one for ourselves too because sometimes – and this is obviously natural, more than natural, and obvious – sometimes we focus on the condition of women outside the european union, but you cannot imagine – or maybe you can imagine very well – how much too we need to understand inside our own countries that women can be a powerful force, especially for our diplomacy but also for our work ahead. that also made me proud. it was a different level of being proud, but it was a very important one. i thank you very much for all the support you have shown today, but this is just the beginning. we will need to work together closely on the follow—up, both on the implementation and on all the political challenges we will keep having ahead of us, trying to find the right direction for the region as a whole.
the next item is the joint debate on the report by verónica lope fontagné, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on social entrepreneurship and innovation in the fight against unemployment (2014/2236 (ini)) (a8-0247/2015) and the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century: matching skills and qualifications to demand and employment opportunities as a way to overcome the employment crisis (2014/2235 (ini)) (a8-0222/2015) and the request for an oral reply to the council on precarious employment by thomas händel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs (oj c 905, 14.11.2015) and the question by thomas händel, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the commission's proposal for a regulation on precarious employment (2015/2235 (ini)) (oj c 105, 14.11.2015).
a writer. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. minister! ladies and gentlemen, i would like to make a few points before i turn to the oral questions. we have 23.5 million registered unemployed in the eu at the moment and we are happy that this percentage has fallen slightly. we are celebrating this morning the creation of 1.65 million jobs last year, but we are not acknowledging that these jobs are essentially precarious, jobs that no one can live off. precarious employment has been the largest growth market in the employment sector for years. in germany alone, precarious employment has increased by 70% in 20 years, while normal employment has decreased by 7.2%. no one can live off that! this trend continues even among the young trainers. even in prosperous regions and sectors, 50% of young people are without a permanent job. we live in a europe where a quarter of the population is poor, and that is despite working. this is becoming a mass experience. ladies and gentlemen, the eu has always been a promise of social security, growing prosperity and a slow alignment of living standards. more and more people are living the opposite. i am convinced that if people lose faith in the security of the future, europe as a whole will lose. employment and social affairs are not a waste product of international competitiveness, but the main objective of european policy. i think that this is a very important point, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a very clear answer. a detailed overview of the development of precarious employment relationships is required. we have guidelines on part-time, temporary and temporary work. what is the state of implementation in the member states of the european union? what can the council say about progress in the fight against precarious work? what action is the commission taking, for example, on new zero-hour jobs, sham self-employment, subcontracting, outsourcing and so on and so forth - not to mention new forms of precarious work such as job-sharing, casual work, crowdworking and voucher work. i think we need to look more closely at the question of which sectors and occupational groups are particularly affected. how do member states ensure that, for example, the fight against youth unemployment does not lead to an increase in precarious work for young people? how does the council intend to coordinate these efforts? for example, what support does the ilo agenda provide for decent work? i think we have a lot of work to do. the council can tell us when this will be more on the council's agenda? we don't know! i would like to add a point from the discussion this morning. the question of migration is also an employment issue, as a result of this problem. today, those who do not try to legalise illegal immigration are creating illegal employment, creating recipients of poverty wages and creating human tools for wage dumping. we should therefore also ensure that there are more legal immigration routes from an employment and social policy point of view. this morning jean-claude juncker stressed that the people of europe have a right to full employment, which we will not give up, and he stressed the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place. both are very much welcome from the empl's point of view. we shall support these efforts. i would also like to add that a triple a in europe in the social field also means: wages that are sufficient to live on, with decent working conditions and working hours, a european minimum wage level and minimum social standards. then it's all round. if we want a future european labour market with greater mobility, we cannot afford six different groups of workers in europe with different rights. i would remind you that in recent months we have treated the rules of fiscal policy in europe like the ten commandments, but when it comes to working conditions, working rights, working time, the fundamental rights of posted workers - we sometimes treat negligence as a sort of chivalrous offence. i would like to say that we need to strengthen labour inspections at european level and to have common regulations for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. these are the independent objectives of a social europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not 'poor despite work' is not a myth, it is a bitter reality and no longer the exception. this is not just a crisis, it started long before that. this is not only true of the low-skilled, but also of engineers and highly skilled people. since 2011, more than 2.3 million part-time jobs have been created. many people in europe are forced to work part-time because they cannot find a full-time job. the proportion of fixedterm contracts also remains constantly high, and the mere dictate of competitiveness means that for more and more people, if they work full-time, they can no longer support themselves, that the public pays for their housing, heating and food. the european reality is: posted workers in construction or motor vehicles, working for a minimum wage or without social protection; companies, for example in the logistics sector, whose main staff consists of temporary workers or independent subcontractors; contracts without working time guarantees, so-called zero hour contracts; workers on call, for example in the fast food sector; pilots, who, like many other occupational groups, are forced into virtual self-employment; newcomers, university graduates, who go from one unpaid internship to the next. and these are just a few examples. this is really pure exploitation under the guise of flexibility in the labour market. precarious and illegal employment cannot be the rule. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social dimension of the internal market is not undermined by the fact that the social dimension is not a matter of the member states, but of the community. we must also ensure that we have european-level labour inspections. i appeal to the council and the commission: do not watch, act! the facts are on the table.
i would like to thank mr buonanno. i'm calling you to order. you just said there were only a few left. if you don't stop, there'll be even fewer, because i'll have to expel you from the room. by the way, i'm reprimanding you for using that t-shirt. i think it is contrary to annex 15 to our rules of procedure. i will report this to the president.
mr president, the eu has a massive problem with youth unemployment, we all agree on this. but there is a myth going around about how to solve this problem. this myth says that all we need to do is provide young people with skills, adjust them to the needs of the labour market and adjust the labour market to the needs of the employers and ‘voilà: problem solved’. i wish it were that easy to solve this problem, but it is not. in fact, if we say that there is just a lack of incentives for young people to find jobs this is placing the blame on these unemployed people for not finding jobs. this is individualising the problem while, actually, we are facing a structural problem. so what we need is much more and goes beyond what is suggested in the report. we need immense funding for educational systems; we need more investment in order to create jobs, and we need a labour market that serves the needs of the employees rather than employers. we need to put an end to the myth, because the situation as it is now in the european union is placing the blame on the unemployed people. this is not the way to go, we need to work together to solve this crisis.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report by my colleague, véronica lope fontagné, brings to the fore a number of actors in our economies who are often unjustly kept in the shadows: social enterprises. i know! they are designed for social purposes, not for profit maximization. cooperatives, foundations and associations employ 14 million workers across europe and have coped better with the crisis than many traditional for-profit companies. for example, the health sector, where many of them are based, saw over one million new jobs created between 2009 and 2013 alone. their management is characterised by democratic structures and a high degree of transparency. it is therefore all the more important that they are given greater recognition in politics, society and the media at local, regional, national and european levels. the eu commission, commissioner, should implement all measures under the social entrepreneurship initiative 2012 in a consistent manner and, in my view, also promote them in the future through national programmes of the european social fund. and the banks should do more, because social enterprises often have far too little access to finance. the reason is that this type of company is not sufficiently known by many banks. the creation of a special european fund for the banking sector is therefore a particularly important signal. in addition, there is support through the employment and social innovation programme, in which we have a sub-programme for social entrepreneurship. let us put these companies where they belong: in the public consciousness of the european union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking today about the enormous unemployment in the european union. the average is 10%, with over 20% for young people and over 50% in some member states. this is absolutely terrifying. and what does the eu think? ad 1: she wants more government investment. this is the wrong way, the state is not the better investor. and ad 2: she wants a europe-wide minimum wage. that is the wrong way to go, and i would say even more wrong. that doesn't work in germany. but the worst part is that it affects the weakest of the weak. in germany, the average hourly wage is 25 euros, in bulgaria it is 3.20 euros. how can you just let that go? we have 24 million unemployed in the eu at the moment, seven and a half million of them young people. with the minimum wage, this problem will multiply. what we need is less bureaucracy for companies, lower taxes, abolish the minimum wage. in short, we do not need more eu and more state, the solution is less eu, less state, in fact much less state.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that no one doubts that azerbaijan must be heavily criticized for its human rights violations. the commission has already made a number of proposals. and that is why i very much welcome the initiative of this resolution. on the other hand, however, urgencies cannot be the way to establish fundamental political positions, whether to negotiate or not, when something is being discussed in committees with ratification, or when we are involved, for example, in whether or not we have the southern line in energy areas, or whether we leave the entire supply of the european union to the russians. these are important strategic questions which i believe require sensible discussion within the european parliament and the relevant committees. and so i would ask you to take note of this and also to say that we are taking these points out of this resolution and deciding on the resolution on my behalf as we always do, but that there is a proper consultation on this. i do not think that we can decide on thursday whether or not to negotiate with china over emergencies that are concluded on wednesday. if we adopt the standards we are now adopting with azerbaijan, we must end all relations with russia and china. and i think that's not the professional way that we help people and how we represent our interests there. and that is why i ask that this be taken off the agenda. (applause from the centre)
it's the easiest thing to do. we'll let the house decide. it is only the vote that is postponed, the debate has been held, the agenda has not been changed. it is a daily practice in this house that we postpone votes for certain reasons. i don't know why that doesn't work on this question. the artificial interpretations of the rules of procedure do not seem to me to be helpful either. if the majority of this house wishes to postpone, we will postpone and bring it back in 14 days, or when the next plenary session is, or for my sake, in september. then we'll come to an agreement, i'm sure. and i think that's the easiest thing in the world, that we can get together and find a solution. we shall then be voting with a large majority to condemn the human rights violations in azerbaijan. it's in your best interest, isn't it? eight days doesn't matter. i could tell you a lot more, but it would only cause you harm. i would therefore ask you to let the house decide, and if it does, i shall have been unlucky.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the president-in-office has said that the rules of procedure do not allow us to postpone votes on urgent matters when the debate is open and the motion for a resolution has been tabled. if that is true, and that is what the parliament's services have told the members before the vote, then the vote requested by mr brok is not admissible under the rules of procedure. and that is what you said, mr president.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on 'investing in jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union', as i consider the social dimension of regional development to be very crucial, although i would have liked to see more attention paid to the role and needs of the family.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is central to reducing regional disparities and promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion between the regions of the member states. against this background, i welcome the focus of cohesion policy 2014-2020 on effectiveness, efficiency and performance.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution on 'investing in jobs and growth: promoting economic, social and territorial cohesion in the union'. the time for eu cohesion policy is now over. cohesion served to bring together the member states, cities and regions of the eu. to this end, the eu sets up programmes, the five funds that together make up the 'european structural and investment funds'. in total, the eu has already spent more than 500 billion euros on this. all of this has been of no use except that bridges have been built without roads, airports without air traffic, and illuminated highways without cars. the eu has failed miserably in its self-declared mission to help reduce economic, social and territorial disparities between european regions. i recognize the report's efforts to improve some things here, but i do not think that is actually possible. the only thing that can help is to abolish and rethink, i.e. to change the whole policy. inequality is a good thing between people and also between regions. we should not try to make people or regions the same. this can only result in central planning mismanagement and absurd incentives. and you can see that.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on the implementation, results and overall evaluation of the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations because i think we can say with certainty: the european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations was a great success throughout europe. the stated aim of the european year was to establish a 'culture of active ageing' for europe, which promotes vitality and respects the dignity of all. i think this is thanks to the efforts of many volunteers. families are the first to experience solidarity between generations and the first to make active ageing possible. in this connection, you deserve special thanks! the broad approach of the european year 2012 was a successful concept and mobilised the masses of society. i would like to make a similar wish for the european year 2016. that is why i have proposed to make it the 'european year against violence'. i hope that this proposal will find your support.
in writing. ‒ the actions and objectives launched in the framework of the 2012 european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations should be continued and further developed. older people are not a burden to our society today, but a great opportunity.
in writing. i abstained on this report, together with my group, the cor. the year 2012 was marked as the 'european year for active ageing and solidarity between generations'. the aim was to create a culture of active ageing in europe. the specific objectives, according to the rapporteur, were to stimulate debate on the values of active ageing and the development of mutual learning, to develop a framework for engagement and concrete action, and to promote activities to combat age discrimination. although the committee generally supports the idea of active ageing, it is against this report because of its normative nature. it clearly goes beyond the eu's competence and is therefore not acceptable to the cor and myself.
in writing. ‒ i support the implementation of the white paper on transport for a competitive and resource-efficient transport system. by shifting freight to rail and sea transport, we are protecting our environment and reducing congestion on roads and in air transport. it also reduces europe's dependence on oil imports.
in writing. i voted against the european parliament resolution on the implementation of the 2011 transport white paper: taking stock and moving forward with sustainable mobility.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of women and men are respected. but the reports by mr rodrigues and mr vozemberg will certainly not achieve that. because a university degree in science is not something you should decide to pursue just because it is advertised. such study is hard work indeed. it's not a walk, and it's only for people who have the gift. we see this in the high dropout rate. successful completion of a degree in science requires a high level of commitment, which is certainly not the case for those who are just convinced because of the advertising. a college degree is a waste of time and a lot of money. that is why i consider the two reports irresponsible, something that is certainly not helpful to the young ladies.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on women's scientific and university careers and invisible barriers, because unfortunately it has not been possible to remove the demands for mandatory wage transparency beyond the collective bargaining area . i do not think that is the right thing to do, nor is it the eu's job.
in writing. ‒ we need to overcome the hidden barriers that make it difficult for many women to pursue careers, especially in science and technology. gender equality is a fundamental principle and we should promote the scientific and university careers of women through concrete actions.
in writing. - when i read the template, i couldn't believe my eyes. many of the proposals in this motion bear little relation to reality. as a long-time honorary professor at the university of mannheim and as president of the gottfried wilhelm leibniz association (wgl), i have repeatedly observed that the current instruments to support the careers of women in science are still inadequate. the proposals presented here are, however, in some cases totally inappropriate, at least as far as german universities are concerned. in particular, i was surprised that it was seriously proposed to make the award of research grants conditional on the existence of 'gender plans'. already today, girls in schools are showing that they are doing better than boys. and in universities, too, the proportion of female professors is increasing year by year. i suspect that even the professors who are themselves engaged in raising third-party funds cannot understand such an award criterion. of course i voted against it. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on women's scientific and university careers and invisible barriers (2014/2251 ((ini)) because the adopted text places the wrong emphasis on the important issue of equal opportunities for women and men in science and research. thus, a mandatory quota is not a suitable, accepted instrument to increase the proportion of women in the middle to upper management of higher education institutions. comments on the so-called 'gender gap' must be supported by facts and analysed in detail. the principle is to reject attempts to require "tariff transparency" beyond the already regulated binding nature of tariffs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on women's scientific and university careers and invisible barriers (2014/2251 ((ini)) because the adopted text places the wrong emphasis on the important issue of equal opportunities for women and men in science and research. thus, a mandatory quota is not a suitable instrument to increase the proportion of women in the middle to upper management of higher education institutions. some statements about alleged discrimination against women are simply wrong in their generality. the commission has also published a report on the implementation of the gender gap in the eu. in principle, measures which favour women over men and thus lead to 'reverse discrimination' must be rejected.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on women's scientific and university careers and invisible barriers (2014/2251 ((ini)) because the adopted text places the wrong emphasis on the important issue of equal opportunities for women and men in science and research. thus, a mandatory quota is not a suitable, accepted instrument to increase the proportion of women in the middle to upper management of higher education institutions. comments on the so-called 'gender gap' must be supported by facts and analysed in detail. the principle is to reject attempts to require "tariff transparency" beyond the already regulated binding nature of tariffs.
in writing. ‒ education is the exclusive responsibility of the member states. it would be too much to prescribe the content of the curriculum, especially if it constitutes an ideological interference with the right of parents to educate their children.
in writing. ‒ the report to be voted on today in the european parliament calls on states to implement gender equality measures at all levels of education. this would mean integrating these measures fully into teacher training, introducing monitoring mechanisms, working directly with families and even making gender issues a topic in sport and leisure activities. as much as we support equal rights for women: these plans are way off target. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. education policy is the responsibility of the individual eu member states! in germany, education policy is even a matter for the länder. in view of this, it seems absurd that the eu should now want to adopt comprehensive regulations in the field of education. that is why i reject this report. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the rodriguez report, which is being voted on today in the european parliament, aims to require states to implement gender equality measures at all levels of education. this would mean integrating these measures fully into teacher training, introducing monitoring mechanisms, working directly with families and even making gender issues a topic in sport and leisure activities. as much as we support equal rights for women: these plans are way off target. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. education policy is the responsibility of the individual eu member states! in germany, education policy is even a matter for the länder. in view of this, it seems absurd that the eu should now want to adopt comprehensive regulations in the field of education. the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected in the area of equal opportunities for men and women. article 3 of the basic law obliges the german state to actively seek to eliminate existing disadvantages. no further action is necessary. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the rodriguez report calls for gender equality measures to be implemented at all levels of education. this would mean integrating these measures fully into teacher training and monitoring their implementation. as much as i support women's equality, these plans are way off target. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. education policy is the responsibility of the individual eu member states. in germany, education policy is even a matter for the länder. in view of this, it seems absurd that the eu should now want to adopt comprehensive regulations in the field of education. the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected in the area of equal opportunities for men and women. article 3 of the basic law obliges the german state to actively seek to eliminate existing disadvantages. no further action is necessary. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the rodriguez report, which is being voted on today in the european parliament, aims to require states to implement gender equality measures at all levels of education. this would mean integrating these measures fully into teacher training, introducing monitoring mechanisms, working directly with families and even making gender issues a topic in sport and leisure activities. as much as we support equal rights for women: these plans are way off target. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. education policy is the responsibility of the individual eu member states! in germany, education policy is even a matter for the länder. in view of this, it seems absurd that the eu should now want to adopt comprehensive regulations in the field of education. the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected in the area of equal opportunities for men and women. article 3 of the basic law obliges the german state to actively seek to eliminate existing disadvantages. no further action is necessary. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the rodriguez report, which is being voted on today in the european parliament, aims to require member states to enforce gender equality measures at all levels of education. this would mean integrating these measures fully into teacher training, introducing monitoring mechanisms, working directly with families and even making gender issues a topic in sport and leisure activities. as much as we support equal rights for women: these plans are way off target. it is also becoming increasingly clear that in many cases today, boys and young men are the disadvantaged sex. it's high time we gave you a fair chance at education again. the provisions of the rodriguez report clearly exceed the powers of the eu. education policy is the responsibility of the individual eu member states! in germany, education policy is even a matter for the länder. in view of this, it seems absurd that the eu should now want to adopt comprehensive regulations in the field of education. the principle of subsidiarity must also be respected in the area of equal opportunities for men and women. article 3 of the basic law obliges the german state to actively seek to eliminate existing disadvantages. no further action is necessary. that is why i reject this report.
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution mentions the role of parents and the family only twice in the recitals of this resolution, namely to warn against the transmission of 'gender roles' by parents and the family during the socialization phases of childhood and adolescence. that means: the european parliament is opposed to fathers and mothers raising their daughters to be wives and mothers and their sons to be husbands and fathers. in order to neutralise parental education within the family as much as possible, public education should adopt 'gender neutral education in the sense of equality' of children and young people, and especially girls. this includes the requirement that curricula, teaching methods and teaching materials be monitored by gender equality experts at all times. of course, the women's committee also insists that sex education be made compulsory for all students from primary school onwards. the manipulation of adolescents is encouraged by the european parliament. this includes a special focus on lgbti lifestyles. to ensure this, schoolbook publishers will now be assisted by special gender and sexuality experts. the commission is also proposing an annual european equal opportunities award to honour educational establishments which have made a special effort to manipulate children and young people. i do not agree with this nonsense and that is why i am voting against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the use of the internal market must be based on reciprocity and fairness between the eea and switzerland. we must have equal playing field for all, not just pick and choose. as a member of the efta/eea, switzerland is and should remain a close partner of the eu. but restrictions on the free movement of persons are not acceptable.
in writing. ‒ the free movement of persons within the internal market is central to economic growth under the eea agreement with switzerland. the existing eu-switzerland relations already allow for sufficient flexibility and contribute to stability and prosperity for the benefit of all citizens and businesses. we will not renegotiate it.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the state of implementation of the regulations in the countries of the european economic area and switzerland. it was given a special impetus by the swiss referendum on migration. the commission wants to put pressure on switzerland and force it to give in by suspending the negotiations on various agreements. the rapporteur has followed this line and has initially used very sharp language. i am in favour of the introduction of referendums and of course also of the obligation for politicians to put their results into practice. states must be able to renegotiate existing agreements which they consider to be out of date. that is why i opposed the commission and the major groups in the european parliament and pushed for changes. the commission has succeeded in extracting the verbal force of the report and also the concrete demand of mr schwab to block the electricity agreement which is particularly important for southern german industry. unfortunately, there is still a general call for sanctions and blockade positions and little willingness to seek dialogue. that is why i voted against the report. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a european parliament. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the state of implementation of the regulations in the countries of the european economic area and switzerland. it was given a special impetus by the swiss referendum on migration. the eu commission wants to put pressure on switzerland by suspending the negotiations on various agreements and force it to give in. the rapporteur, mr schwab (cdu), has followed this line and has initially used very sharp language. as an alfa member of parliament, i am in favour of the introduction of referendums on the swiss model and of course also of the obligation for politicians to implement the results. states must be able to renegotiate existing agreements which they consider to be out of date. that is why i opposed the commission and the major groups in the european parliament and pushed for changes. the commission has succeeded in extracting the verbal force of the report and also the concrete demand of mr schwab to block the electricity agreement which is particularly important for southern german industry. unfortunately, there is still a general call for sanctions and blockade positions and little willingness to seek dialogue. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the state of implementation of the regulations in the countries of the european economic area and switzerland. it was given a special impetus by the swiss referendum on migration. the eu commission wants to put pressure on switzerland by suspending the negotiations on various agreements and force it to give in. the rapporteur, mr schwab (cdu), has followed this line and has initially used very sharp language. but this is a disregard for the democratically expressed will of the swiss. this is contrary to the eu's fundamental values. states must be able to renegotiate existing agreements which they consider to be out of date. it is true that the report has been able to draw out the verbal force and the concrete demand of mr schwab to block the electricity agreement which is particularly important for southern german industry. unfortunately, there is still a general call for sanctions and blockade positions and little willingness to seek dialogue. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the state of implementation of the regulations in the countries of the european economic area and switzerland. it was given a special impetus by the swiss referendum on migration. the eu commission wants to put pressure on switzerland by suspending the negotiations on various agreements and force it to give in. the rapporteur, mr schwab (cdu), has followed this line and has initially used very sharp language. as an alfa member of parliament, i am in favour of the introduction of referendums on the swiss model and of course also of the obligation for politicians to implement the results. states must be able to renegotiate existing agreements which they consider to be out of date. that is why i opposed the commission and the major groups in the european parliament and pushed for changes. the commission has succeeded in extracting the verbal force of the report and also the concrete demand of mr schwab to block the electricity agreement which is particularly important for southern german industry. unfortunately, there is still a general call for sanctions and blockade positions and little willingness to seek dialogue. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the report examines the state of implementation of the regulations in the countries of the european economic area and switzerland. it was given a special impetus by the swiss referendum on migration. the eu commission wants to put pressure on switzerland by suspending the negotiations on various agreements and force it to give in. the rapporteur, mr schwab (cdu), has followed this line and has initially used very sharp language. as an alfa member of parliament, i am in favour of the introduction of swiss-style referendums and of course also of the obligation for politicians to implement the results. states must be able to renegotiate existing agreements which they consider to be out of date. that is why i opposed the commission and the major groups in the european parliament and pushed for changes. the commission has succeeded in extracting the verbal force of the report and also the concrete demand of mr schwab to block the electricity agreement which is particularly important for southern german industry. unfortunately, there is still a general call for sanctions and blockade positions and little willingness to seek dialogue. i therefore voted against the report and also recommended that the committee on the environment should oppose its adoption.
in writing. i abstained from voting on this report together with my colleagues from the committee on economic and monetary affairs. the ecr supports the free movement of persons as one of the fundamental freedoms and a key pillar of the eu's internal market. the group also believes that the free movement of persons should be able to respond to the demands and needs of the labour market. the cor also points out that while the free movement of persons is an important contribution to the internal market, it is only one of many components of the legal relationship between the eu and switzerland. the report is flawed in that it does not take this into account.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report today because it does not take into account the specific situation and reception performance of germany and does not take into account the legitimate concerns and perspectives of the local authorities.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament resolution of 10 september 2015 on the migration and refugee crisis. the paper almost uncritically calls for the european acceptance of the german welcome culture and criticizes the countries that do not want to follow this line. the report praises this unilateral approach and thus causes great resentment in the eu. given the eu's major economic problems and the integration problems of refugees from afghanistan, eritrea, iraq and syria, which are particularly mentioned in the paper, the poor economic reality of other parts of the eu cannot be denied, but a long-term perspective must be developed. there is no word on a long-term return of asylum seekers and it is assumed that permanent migration is accepted or even desired. but the eu cannot impose this decision on the member states. it is also regrettable that the resolution fully intends to maintain the schengen agreement, although there is a great need for action at the moment because of the many violations of the law. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ coping with the refugee influx into europe is a task that neither germany, hungary, denmark or greece can tackle alone. the last few weeks have shown that national unilateral action by individual member states only leads to chaos, and that mutual blame will not get us any further. only joint european approaches can lead to solutions. president juncker has rightly reminded us of our shared humanitarian obligation to take in people who have fled for fear of their lives. it is not acceptable that some member states do not provide any help at all and simply leave the burden to others. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. in addition, the existing minimum standards of the common european asylum system, for example with regard to proper accommodation and treatment of refugees, must be effectively applied throughout the eu. in order to be able to really help the people who need our help the most, we also need a uniform definition of safe countries of origin in all member states. it must be clear to all that asylum applications from countries with established democracies, such as the western balkans, cannot be accepted.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament resolution of 10 september 2015 on the migration and refugee crisis. the paper almost uncritically calls for the european acceptance of the german welcome culture and criticizes the countries that do not want to follow this line. in view of the current figures and the migration potential generated by the german position, and in particular by mrs merkel, this one-sided ideological position must fail in the face of reality. if we want a european solution, we must consult and involve the other member states and we must urgently avoid going it alone. the report praises this unilateral approach and thus causes great resentment in the eu. in view of the eu's major economic problems and the major integration problems of refugees from afghanistan, eritrea, iraq and syria, which are particularly mentioned in the paper, the poor economic reality in other parts of the eu cannot be denied, but a long-term perspective must be developed. there is no word on a long-term return of asylum seekers and it is assumed that permanent migration is accepted or even desired. but the eu cannot impose this decision on the member states. it is also regrettable that the resolution fully intends to maintain the schengen agreement, although there is a great need for action at the moment because of the many violations of the law.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament resolution of 10 september 2015 on the migration and refugee crisis. the paper almost uncritically calls for the european acceptance of the german welcome culture and criticizes the countries that do not want to follow this line. in view of the current figures and the migration potential generated by the german position, and in particular by mrs merkel, this one-sided ideological position must fail in the face of reality. if we want a european solution, we must consult and involve the other member states and we must urgently avoid going it alone. the report praises this unilateral approach and thus causes great resentment in the eu. there is no word on a long-term return of asylum seekers and it is assumed that permanent migration is accepted or even desired. but the eu cannot impose this decision on the member states.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. the ep's response to the impressive speech by commission president jean-claude juncker. he has made it clear that humanity is not negotiable, but the basis of our coexistence and our culture in europe. to do justice to it, a historic effort is needed - and a european one! the impression that europe has not delivered in the refugee crisis is wrong. it is not strasbourg or brussels, but many capitals that have failed miserably. the eu has acted: over 120,000 people have been rescued since operation triton began. eur 4 billion was provided in aid for refugees in syria, lebanon, jordan, iraq, turkey and egypt. the european asylum system, which has been repeatedly called for, has long since become a reality. common standards for the treatment and reception of asylum seekers apply throughout europe. however, these are not implemented in all member states, and the eu commission has opened 32 infringement procedures. people in germany and other member states have made an impressive display of what it means to be helpful through many voluntary initiatives. that's exemplary! however, we are dependent on the solidarity of the other european partners. the eu's nobel peace prize winner is called. the meeting of eu interior ministers on 14 september will show whether all partners have the necessary maturity.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament resolution of 10 september 2015 on the migration and refugee crisis. the paper almost uncritically calls for the european acceptance of the german welcome culture and criticizes the countries that do not want to follow this line. in view of the current figures and the migration potential generated by the german position, and in particular by mrs merkel, this one-sided ideological position must fail in the face of reality. if we want a european solution, we must consult and involve the other member states and we must urgently avoid going it alone. the report praises this unilateral approach and thus causes great resentment in the eu. in view of the eu's major economic problems and the major integration problems of refugees from afghanistan, eritrea, iraq and syria, which are particularly mentioned in the paper, the poor economic reality in other parts of the eu cannot be denied, but a long-term perspective must be developed. there is no word on a long-term return of asylum seekers and it is assumed that permanent migration is accepted or even desired. but the eu cannot impose this decision on the member states. it is also regrettable that the resolution fully intends to maintain the schengen agreement, although there is a great need for action at the moment because of the many violations of the law.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament resolution of 10 september 2015 on the migration and refugee crisis. the paper almost uncritically calls for the european acceptance of the german welcome culture and criticizes the countries that do not want to follow this line. in view of the current figures and the potential for migration created by the german position, and in particular by mrs merkel, this one-sided ideological position fails to meet reality. if we want a european solution, we must consult and involve the other member states and we must urgently avoid going it alone. the report praises this unilateral approach and thus causes great resentment in the eu. in view of the major economic problems of the eu and the major integration problems of the refugees from afghanistan, eritrea, iraq and syria, which are particularly mentioned in the paper, the bad economic reality in other parts of the eu cannot be denied, but a long-term perspective must also be developed. there is no word on the long-term return of asylum seekers and it is assumed that permanent migration is accepted or even desired. but the eu cannot impose this decision on the member states. it is also regrettable that the resolution intends to maintain the schengen agreement in its entirety, even though there is a great need for action at the moment because of the many violations of the law.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for a resolution on the eu's role in the middle east peace process today because it takes too little account of israel's particular vulnerability, its repeated attempts to isolate it diplomatically and economically, and the still not underestimated and difficult role of iran.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus, because i share the positions of this text and i want a much stronger role for the eu in the democratization process.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in combating unemployment, as i share the view that social entrepreneurship is one of the most dynamic and important economic sectors in europe in the light of demographic developments. the eu would do well to promote this more from a social perspective.
in writing. ‒ social enterprises are very important for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy, because they are closely linked to people: they help and care for those who have special needs in their lives and in dealing with problems, and they are usually particularly well established in the region. they thus make a special contribution to social cohesion and integration. it is important for me to make it clear that these services take account of the business side as well as the social component. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. i think we have made this point in our parliamentary report. i also believe that the commission should involve social enterprises in all its action plans for employment and social inclusion and promote social entrepreneurship and investment in the social economy.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on social entrepreneurship and social innovation in combating unemployment. the report calls for subsidies and special treatment for enterprises with a social purpose. it is therefore a product of the social worker industry, which is asking the commission to set up a subsidy programme. this is certainly not a task for the european level and violates the principle of subsidiarity. i also lack a clear commitment to the private nature of charitable behaviour. the report assumes that any social action can only happen if it is supported and subsidised by the state. this is not my worldview. i'm convinced that people do good without the state threatening them with a stick in the back and a carrot in front of their nose.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century: matching skills and qualifications to demand and employment opportunities as a way out of the crisis as i share the concern to strengthen the internal labour market in europe. at the same time, i stress that this must not be at the expense of proven models such as the german master letter.
in writing. ‒ it was overdue to address the issue of how to create a supply-and-demand eu labour market, where education institutions provide the skills that are in demand. it was important to me to make it clear that we need to train more in the stem subjects that are in high demand in the labour market and that can alleviate the looming skills shortage and help secure knowledge in these key competences for the european location. to stimulate interest in these subjects, we must start in kindergarten and introduce girls and young women to technology and science. at the same time, we must bear in mind that we have over two million job vacancies in the eu which can only be filled if we improve labour mobility. the commission has also proposed that the european social fund should be used to help young people to find jobs. we have already taken an important step in this parliamentary term by revising the eures regulation. thank you very much.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on creating a competitive eu labour market for the 21st century: matching skills and qualifications to demand and employment opportunities as a way out of the crisis. in it, the eu parliament 'calls on the commission and the member states to introduce a european minimum wage framework based on a threshold level in each member state, in order to ensure adequate income by law or by agreement and in accordance with national practice, in the context of reducing the wage gap' (paragraph 106). i do not support minimum wages in any way, either at national or european level. i find it astonishing that so many of my colleagues can see a competitive labour market when the low-skilled are legally excluded from participation in the labour market by a minimum wage. i am also very much puzzled to see the commission's competence in this. in an eu of competition, each member state will find its own rules for labour markets. if the eu is a level playing field, competition is prevented. one thing is certain: this report does not offer a way out of the crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the 30th and 31st annual reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law (20122013) today, as i believe it ignores many critical areas of non-application of existing eu law.
in writing. i voted against this report with my colleagues from the ecr group. the report focuses on eu law in 2012 and 2013 in policy areas covering issues such as health and consumer protection, environmental protection, the internal market and services. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. while i was able to support the ecr compromise proposals for increased dialogue with national parliaments, the ecr rejects the report in its present form on the grounds of breaches of the principle of subsidiarity. so did i.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 10 september 2015.
we now come to the work schedule.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. europe is the place where we fight for human rights and democracy, and i would like to speak today on behalf of my group about an incident in south america, namely in venezuela. the opposition leader, leopoldo lópez, was arrested and detained there a few days ago. this is a massive crime against democracy in venezuela. we would simply like to address this today and make it known that these incidents are taking place there, and would ask you, mr president, to also lodge a protest from the european parliament so that we can report back that this is not in the spirit of democracy.
thank you very much, mr. weber. mr. weber, i had mr. lópez's wife as my guest. i have received her, have expressed the house's solidarity with her imprisoned husband and will convey the protest to the venezuelan authorities. ladies and gentlemen, i have received a request from the commission following the final draft agenda adopted by the conference of presidents on 10 september under rule 149 of the rules of procedure. the president of the commission announced in his state of the union address that proposals would be made on migration, including a proposal for a council decision introducing provisional measures in the area of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary. the council has now sent me the commission's draft. the proposal shall be formally transmitted to the libe committee. i have received a request from the council to deal with the matter as quickly as possible. in agreement with the president of the commission and after consulting the conference of presidents and the chairman of the libe committee, i propose that this commission proposal be dealt with under the urgency procedure under rule 154. ladies and gentlemen, the refugee crisis we are experiencing certainly calls for an immediate solution at union level. i think it justifies in every respect the use of the urgency procedure. i believe that the institutions of the european union should take it upon themselves to show the citizens who are concerned that we are taking action. i would therefore be grateful if you could agree to the request and my proposal to take a decision under the urgency procedure under rule 154.
i am very grateful to mr moraes for his supporting comments. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commissioner has been able to give us a reply to the question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you have discussed the procedure with the group leaders and i would like to express my support once again, also on behalf of my group chairmen. i believe that the concerns of the citizens, which you have also expressed, clearly demonstrate that we must act. the european parliament proved last week that we are part of the solution, as an institution, by supporting the commission's proposals. we are ready to act and we hope that the member states will be ready to act at the end of the day. and we can underline this signal of our readiness to act by this procedure - and therefore also by our full support.
does anyone wish to speak against the motion?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is not a question of urgency, but of haste. parliament must be able to examine the proposal in its committee, to deliberate, to formulate amendments and to vote on them. i can't have this thing just nodding off. the situation in europe is complicated. i would like to refer first of all to the situation in my own country. germany currently receives about 43% of all asylum applications in the european union. the commission proposal in question would actually only allow germany to account for some 22%. it would certainly be inappropriate to redistribute 120,000 refugees now, with the result that germany would be able to take in more refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i shall come back to the question of the debate in the committee on the internal affairs and the amendments you want and the deadlines for that. i shall inform you of this again because you are wrong. we shall now vote on my proposal to proceed by urgency under rule 154. if you agree to my proposal, please raise your hand. who's against it? who's holding back? that's settled. i also propose that the sitting be extended until thursday morning so that a vote can be taken at 11 a.m. the only item on the agenda for tomorrow would then be this vote on the commission's proposal. does anyone wish to speak in favour of extending the agenda so that we extend the plenary session until tomorrow? does anyone want to speak out against this?
mr lamassoure, thank you very much. i 'll make you a deal . if we want to meet all the deadlines, we can also move the deadlines for amendments and the deadlines for translation, the vote to 10 a.m. since the committee is sitting in the opposite room and the vote will not take more than 10 minutes, i would recommend that we hold the vote at 10 a.m. we shall then be able to finish quickly, and you will then just have to switch to the other side and listen to mr juncker. i would then suggest that we extend the agenda until 10 a.m. on thursday and then vote at 10 a.m. then we won't have to deal with the taxe committee. (parliament adopted the proposal) the deadline for tabling amendments to the commission proposal is today at 6 p.m. the deadline for submitting requests for separate, separate and individual votes is today at 9 p.m.
mr. ransdorf, you must have made a mistake. i never needed to use that wording, and i wouldn't use it. but perhaps you heard it when you gave your press conference in crimea. (cheers and applause)
mr. ransdorf, you can read the text. you're very good with the german language. read it and you'll see that you're wrong.
you are wrong, sir, as is mr ransdorf. i have been in an interview promoting the community method and have expressed my belief that the european union's crises can only be solved on the basis of a community spirit. i said, sometimes you have to fight hard for that community spirit. it's not like i humiliated any country. i'll stick with it. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the debate on the conclusions of the justice and home affairs council on migration of 14 september 2015 (2015/2849 ((rsp)). i would like to welcome the president-in-office of the european council, mr jean asselborn, foreign minister of luxembourg.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not so long ago that an iron curtain fell in europe and walls were torn down. it is a shame that we are seeing new walls being built these days. europe must now prove itself as a union of shared values and a union of shared responsibility and solidarity. the member states must act now. we need more support for unhcr, and we also need more effective development cooperation. but above all, we need to finally share responsibility for refugees in europe. the european union is also committed to the implementation of the european asylum policy, and in particular to supporting all countries in need of financial or organisational support. the council has a chance next week to give a first positive sign. you're going to have to do it.
madam president, i think we all agree that racism has no place in europe. as a german, let me say that the work and the hard fight of those who resisted the nazi regime deserve all our honour. (applause) the council meeting on monday was a disgrace, i am afraid to say. it was certainly not the fault of the presidency or a lack of work on their part. on monday it was national egoisms that won out. european solidarity and the refugees themselves were on the losing side – people who are fleeing from war and terrorism who are currently being turned away at our borders. this is unacceptable if we want to uphold the europe of freedom, solidarity and human rights. the council needs to act now because what is at stake is our own credibility. it is our human rights, it is europe and our idea of humanism and humanity.
i have to say, madam president, commissioner, you speak of a strong political message. where is that strong political message? they're trying to move people against their will. first it was 40,000, now it's 120,000, tomorrow it might be half a million. the message would be to act now and finally close the bottle. mrs merkel has pulled the cork out of the bottle, and you don't know how to stop it. they are merely acting on the symptoms, but they are in no way combating the causes. it would be right to suspend schengen, to close the borders, in order not to give millions of people hope for a better life in europe, which we cannot guarantee them. the money you spend per asylum seeker, per migrant in germany and europe, put it back into their home countries, so that you can give them a perspective there!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the meeting of the interior ministers has failed. i think it is fair and good that the commission, mr avramopoulos, is so clear about this. i also think it's good, mr asselborn, that you're not trying to sugarcoat things here. we know you as a passionate european. i can only imagine how you must have felt. it wasn't just a meeting. this was a meeting to try to do something concrete for people in need. this is where the institutions have failed. it is the council that has failed here. the member states - mr verhofstadt has just referred to the dispute - have not been able to reach an agreement. this distribution key is necessary. it is not a panacea, but it is necessary to strengthen the sense of solidarity, of fairness in the european union. and if we cannot agree on a binding key, why not form an avant-garde, why not sweden, italy, luxembourg, germany? why not do what you did with schengen, what you did with the euro? why not some countries go ahead? others can join later. i would also like to say that we need legal ways of immigration. and one last thing: despite all the quarrels among democrats, let us not leave our europe to the cronies of madame le pen and her fellow-men!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to point out that germany has undertaken to help neighbouring countries which were completely overwhelmed - including austria and hungary, which were no longer able to cope with the flow of refugees on their own - and has undertaken not to send the refugees back to hungary or austria, because these countries would not have been able to cope with it on their own. the bad interpretations that are taking place here are simply completely out of place. the refugee problem can only be solved by working together. mr. secretary of state, i have a big request. in the budget debate we note that some financial officials and ambassadors still do not have the task of setting priorities for the field of migration, development aid, external aid, neighbourhood aid, but unfortunately the opposite. i would ask the heads of government and the foreign ministers, together with the ministers of the interior and the ministers for development, to make it clear that the budgetary procedures must also be adapted to the problems we are facing.
i have to say, madam president, the asylum crisis will change europe in its foundations, apart from the real refugees. asylum is not the answer to world poverty. this is what the german minister for the interior, de maizière, said on 8 september. the german chancellor has fuelled the already dramatic situation with her contributions in a way which will go down in history as the historic failure of a german chancellor, probably of a european head of government. there can be no eu quotas for the distribution of refugees either. almost everyone wants to go to germany. the real refugees and the poverty migrants, they will go, they will come. germany cannot take in all the civil war refugees in the world. that's not possible. if you don't, you don't have a big heart, you have a small mind. the state is failing! we need to talk about replacing state asylum with private. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the church should grant asylum. this is how a welcoming culture can work: private engagement. we must start rethinking the law of asylum!
acting president of the council. madam president, i listened with great interest, with great respect, sometimes with great surprise, and it was a little comforting to see that the gap in appreciation in the european parliament is ten times as wide as in the council. i do not agree with the outcome of the justice and home affairs council last monday. that is why i have decided, on behalf of the luxembourg presidency, to take a new step. this one, in my view, must be decisive. one member asked why we had not voted last monday. we could not vote because we respect the european parliament and the treaties. the vote will require the opinion of the european parliament, and that opinion will be given by you tomorrow at a vote after 10 a.m. i hope that on 22 september it will not be necessary to vote and that everything will be done - at any rate by the presidency - to reach an agreement by consensus. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, respect for human rights is enshrined in the charter of the european union. anyone who knocks on our door and is prosecuted has the right to the rules of the geneva convention apply. despite all the problems in society, in france and elsewhere, i think the european union would lose all its credibility if it closed its eyes. in the same way, we should not criticize a country or politicians for their generosity. i also think that the commission - and i look at my friend dimitris avramopoulos - its president and its commissioner have done a perfect job. the commission has proposed something very tangible, and i shall not repeat it. i only want that in 2015 we in the european union should show the same zeal to show solidarity as we did during the yugoslav crisis, when there was a very great solidarity between east and west, south and north. i would like to say that we obviously have no right to lose the visegrád group countries because we would then lose the historic challenge of europe. we must therefore do everything possible to change the approach of the visegrád countries. the few hundreds, even thousands of refugees who are fleeing the misery and brutality in syria are not elements that are penetrating into the society of these countries to break it down. that's certainly not true. it may be difficult to explain, but it takes patience and a certain amount of strength to speak to the leaders and perhaps also to the people of these countries. the presidency will, in any case, by 22 september listen, work with the 28 member states. madam president, i do not entirely agree with those who believe that a european council is the best way forward. i am not against a european council. of course, i have no right to be against it, but we must remember june and perhaps also bear in mind that since the lisbon treaty we must let the council of ministers work. we failed, i agree with you. on monday we will overcome this failure, at least as regards the distribution of 120,000 refugees. as for the 40,000, you know we've found a solution. if we succeed, i believe that the european council will have plenty of time to explain itself afterwards. we must now keep up the pressure on the justice and home affairs council next tuesday. as regards the last question by mrs hohlmeier on the financial envelope, we shall have more concrete figures from the commission on tuesday, either for turkey or for greece. this is very important for greece to have reception facilities, because most of the people who are asylum seekers in europe today, we don't know where they really come from, or who they are; we have not received them with dignity and that needs to change very quickly. that is why, after greece asked for help from the commission, easo, unhcr and the member states too, we have responded positively to that request. i think that this is in the interest not only of greece, dimitris avramopoulos, but also of the whole of europe. that is the direction in which we are going to try to do everything possible within the framework of the luxembourg presidency to find a solution next tuesday, at least as regards the distribution of the persons proposed by the commission, which we have the duty to deal with.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. nobody wants to bring her in. but if they are entitled to asylum, the right of asylum applies. the german chancellor did not issue a general invitation, but on that friday she gave shelter to people who were lying in the street. and i think that made me proud of my chancellor. mrs von storch, you always talk about christianity and act unchristianly. i do not want to go into the internal questions now. mrs hohlmeier has already explained this. what we have to do is actually get to the root causes. that means that i hope that now, in the framework of the united nations, the united states and russia will come together on this issue to bring the perpetrators in this region, including those who are waging a proxy war, namely saudi arabia and tehran, to a table and also to clarify the role of ankara in this issue. the only way we can do that is if we isolate this isis/daesh. this house must also consider a new african policy if we are to tackle this problem.
i have to say, madam president, it's been clear for a long time, but not as clear as it is now. the european union's refugee and asylum policy has failed. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe, and to help the people of europe. however, there is agreement on measures that lead to further isolation. but we must not respond to the failed isolation policy of the past with more isolation, but we need a fundamental rethinking of refugee policy. we need more legal and safe ways of entering the eu, more resettlement. we need intra-european solidarity and binding commitments on the distribution of refugees. and we need the protection of human rights as a compass at all levels, including on behalf of the frontex missions, and especially in cooperation with third countries such as eritrea or egypt.
i have to say, madam president, the speech by mr juncker to the members of this house last week in strasbourg has already been overtaken by reality today. the schengen agreement has been suspended several times since then, and a planned quota system can only work with border controls. the german chancellor has sent a fatal message to the people who have come to us from the crisis regions of the world. and now it is raising its moral finger and calling on other countries of this union to share the consequences of this decision. mrs merkel said that in a few years germany will change beyond recognition. that she imposes this isolation on our people without public debate is intolerable. the fact that it expects other states to agree to such changes shows its complete lack of reality. we are, however, proposing a way of dealing with this crisis. a european solution is desirable. but given the large number of refugees, the solution must be found outside europe's borders. we must take a joint action to establish safe havens and protection zones in the respective crisis areas.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to make an appeal to all member states today: finally act together - and i stress jointly - to get the refugee crisis under control! no member state can tackle the refugee crisis on its own. all member states are invited to attend! i can only say that what happened on monday at the council of ministers of the interior was a shame, a sadness and a disappointment. i'm from munich, ladies and gentlemen. we saw 20,000 asylum seekers and refugees arrive in our city last weekend. the weekend before that, it was 20,000. since 1 september, more than 75 000 people have come to our country. two thirds of them are now housed in bavaria. and i can tell you that if you have to follow the debate and you talk about it or you can't even agree that 120,000 people are being distributed among 28 member states, that is a real tragedy. i really ask the member states to act. a word to germany, madam president, to germany and to the federal chancellor, who has been addressed so often: germany did not cause the situation in iraq, did not cause the war in syria, is not to blame for the situation in afghanistan and in many arab countries. we are trying to live up to our responsibility, which is also a humanitarian one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let's stop talking about a refugee crisis. there is no migration crisis either. there is a european crisis. one in four people living in jordan is a refugee. and we should not be able to accommodate 500,000 refugees, out of 500 million people in europe? i think we can solve this so-called crisis. but we must act now, wisely, together and quickly. this is not easy, because there is no plan, because until recently the member states - including my own - have insisted that these policies are none of the eu's business. but it's our business! we like to talk about our european values. we are particularly happy to pursue them when it comes to the policies of countries outside the eu, but we must also live them here in europe, in the eu, otherwise we are not credible. those who respond to hardship, misery and flight with rejection, walls, barbed wire and tear gas have nothing to do with our values. governments like this have different values. they want another union, and there won't be one with us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we greens also welcome the adoption of the new agenda 2030, and we are naturally pleased that the concept of sustainability has been given a central role in this agenda. but in practice, this concept must not be sacrificed to growth orientation. and it is also of great importance that this agenda applies equally to industrialized and developing countries. i wonder: are we ready here in europe? yes, mr timmermans, policy coherence is crucial, and for the european union and its member states this means that they have to rethink and adjust their internal and external policies accordingly. i am thinking a little bit about our controversial trade strategies, our agricultural policies, but also about the problem of tax evasion and illegal financial flows. and another point: progress must be measured. we very much hope that the un member states can agree on a strong monitoring system here, which identifies and points out what is wrong and also suggests ways of improving it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that the european commission and the european parliament have done their homework in preparing for the new york conference. we have been following this for some years in the development committee, and i think that with the aim of sustainability we have put a new emphasis on development policy. i would like to express my gratitude to commissioner mimica and to his predecessor, mr piebalgs, who has been following this process for many years. whether we have ten targets or seventeen, it doesn't matter. i think it's crucial that we develop a new spirit of solidarity between peoples, that we get away from the old way of thinking, the rich north, the poor south, but we in the industrialized countries, in the european union are equally challenged. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is clearly reflected in the extent to which the member states actively participate in development cooperation.
i have to say, madam president, the commission has already made a number of proposals. the spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak at the end of the day sometimes. we usually pass very good resolutions here in parliament - also at the cop conferences - and then, when the pledge is taken - and next year the pledge is taken, namely to reform the emissions trading system - then we have to jump, also, at the end of the day, a little higher. because what you're seeing in europe right now, refugee flows -- in total, almost 20 million people are fleeing, half of them children. in hungary, people are being prevented from entering europe to exercise their fundamental right to asylum at the border with serbia, with tear gas and water cannons. and if we're not careful, according to a study by oxford university, we'll have up to 200 million climate refugees by 2050. in this respect, let us act together, as the first vice-president has just said. we must act coherently, think about it, and make a policy out of a single cast in foreign policy, let climate diplomacy work, in development policy, in environmental policy: then it becomes a shoe.
i have to say, madam president, i am a little surprised at the tone of some of the debates here. the left side of the house is a class struggle. it is a question of colonial exploitation. it projects on the evil capitalist all the misery and the evils and the mismanagement of the third world. on the other side of the house, the situation is that refugee aid is confused with development aid. and i'm sure that's a rough cutting, too. it's really about development. and i think development is indeed something that we need to support, because the income disparities in the world are still dramatic, and they're a challenge to the developed world. it is therefore good that the western community in particular continues to pursue this objective. and if you set more than one goal, if you set ten or seventeen goals or a whole bunch of sub-goals, so that you completely lose track, then that borders on a little absurdity, but it doesn't change the good intention and the good purpose. but it is much more important that we agree on the means. setting goals is easy. but we must be able to walk the right way. and i think we should not overestimate what we can achieve through government development aid. there are contributions that are meaningful to the development of states, but the essential mechanism, as all empirical experience shows, is still that of free markets, of competition, of self-driven innovation, which has led to considerable successes, particularly in the economies of southeast asia, in large developing countries or former developing countries, such as china or india or indonesia. we must support these things! we must recognize that it is much more than public capital that is fostering development today. and that is why we must create the right conditions for this.
i have to say, madam president, vice-president timmermans, there used to be an eu sustainability strategy. it's gone into the sinking, to my regret. do you not think that we need to have a new sustainability strategy to show how we are implementing the 17 goals and to link all the facets of the policy? the need for this is illustrated by the fact that if everyone operated like the eu, we would need 2.6 planets. so, our ecological footprint is way too high. we need not only decarbonisation, but also dematerialisation. so not just an energy revolution, but a material revolution. and i hope that the circular economy package will also be very concrete, in terms of timetables and targets. we need to have concrete targets for 2030. we have proposed a 30% reduction in the use of materials. mr president-in-office, what are you doing to ensure that the member states fulfil their obligations to abolish environmentally harmful subsidies and finally meet the 0.7% of development aid promised for a long time?
the next item is the vote on the motions for resolutions. (the results of the vote and other voting details: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to congratulate the commission on the summer package it has presented. i think the proposal on emissions trading in particular is ambitious and it was important that it came before the summer break. climate change must remain at the top of our agenda. and it's precisely in the face of the dramatic refugee crisis that we're experiencing that john kerry, the us secretary of state, has said that we have to take action on climate change, because otherwise we're going to see even larger movements of refugees in the future because of climate change. but how we do it, we have to discuss it. we want at least 40% co2 reduction. and the commission's proposal is already imposing heavy burdens on some sectors. if i remember that the reduction potential of steel and cement, for example, is very limited, physically speaking, and they still have to bring in a 43% reduction in the package - ets has to bring in more than non-ets - then we have to see if we can find other shoulders that can support this. i still think we need to do more with air traffic. what is happening at the international civil aviation organization is not really helping us either. it is not possible that steel and cement bring in minus 43% and air traffic practically nothing. take a look at this and then make amends. finally, a sentence on labelling. i welcome the proposals of the european commission here too. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new fishing vessels. in heating, what happens next week will save us as much energy in the next few years as 47 nuclear power plants produce. so, energy efficiency has huge potential. and we can save money. we can then put the money into our industry and our craftsmen who make energy efficiency, and we do not need to send it to putin or to the oil sheikhs, who unfortunately also partly finance things that cause us great problems. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i hope i understood the question correctly, because the interpretation was a bit delayed. so i think we're still on a pretty good path for the time to 2020 in terms of renewable energy. but the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must look at this again and again. there are problems in some member states and the existing law must be respected. i personally think we need a policy beyond 2020. i am not yet convinced that the new approach that the commission is discussing is better than what we have had so far. there are areas that need to be improved. but we also really need to have a legal order that gives planning certainty to those involved.
the commission has already done so. i would like to comment on only one part of the summer package, namely the revision of the energy labelling directive, because of the time constraints. i think this is a really important step, especially in view of the cop 21 in paris. the energy label is also a successful european model, making it easier for consumers to buy the most energy-efficient products. it is in every household and is indeed known to most consumers in the eu. surveys have also shown that over 80% of eu citizens are familiar with the energy label. the commission has also proposed that the energy labels be revised in a manner that is consistent with the objectives of the directive. the energy labels for the various product groups are now, above all, misleading and no longer fulfil their role as a consumer-friendly instrument for saving electricity. for example, a+ is the best classification for some product groups and the worst efficiency class for others. and then there's the fact that the product groups almost all have completely different scaling from a+++ to a+, g, in short, there's actually a confusion in the market. the commission's proposal is a good one. he still needs some work done. the roles and responsibilities of manufacturers and dealers are not yet clearly separated. the treatment of sensitive product data, i am thinking of trade secrets in the proposed online database, is not described in detail. the responsibility for checking data entered in the database is not clarified. and these are just a few examples.
acting president of the council. mr president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when this sector is going through a difficult period, i would like to reiterate at the outset that agriculture is a fundamental sector for the european economy in terms of employment, social cohesion and sustainable development. the farmers who were at the door of the council on 7 september, those whom i met on several occasions in preparation for this council and on the sidelines of the informal meeting in luxembourg yesterday, those who report their difficulties in many member states, are expecting concrete answers, answers which go beyond mere technical measures and ensure the viability of the sector. that is why, after a first discussion in july on developments in the main agricultural markets and on ways of responding to adverse developments, we convened this council in september to examine the package of measures drawn up by the commission. we continued our discussions yesterday at the informal meeting of the agriculture ministers in luxembourg, which was attended by the chairman of your committee on agriculture and rural development. it is also essential that parliament should contribute to this reflection and i am aware in particular of the recent contributions of its committee on agriculture and rural development concerning the dairy sector. as you know, since july, the market situation has worsened. the year 2015 will have been marked by adverse climatic conditions, in particular one of the worst droughts since 2003, which affected almost half of the member states, the presence of health risks, such as those linked to swine fever, the extension of the russian embargo and insufficient demand in relation to current supply. all this contributes to a particularly depressed price level in europe, particularly in the dairy, pigmeat and fruit and vegetable sectors and also in other sectors such as beef. various initiatives, in the short and medium term, can be suggested to respond in a spirit of solidarity to this situation. these responses must come from the national as well as the european level and must be able to call on all the means available on the two pillars of the cap. as far as the european level is concerned, the measures presented by the commission, to which president juncker referred in his state of the union address, amount to eur 500 million, mainly for the benefit of the dairy sector. they are articulated around three axes. first, to address the cash-strapped farmers; second, to stabilise the markets; and third, to improve the functioning of the supply chain. i think it is important to look at the method before we decide on these measures. first, the financial envelopes made available to member states are intended to provide a fair, targeted and efficient distribution, paying particular attention to those member states and farmers that have been most affected by market developments. secondly, although, in view of the diversity of situations and in order to avoid micro-management from brussels, it is desirable to leave a large margin of manoeuvre to the member states, it is important that this aid does not call into question the market orientation adopted by the new cap, especially as regards the dairy sector since the end of quotas. finally, and particularly in this first year of implementation of the new regulatory framework, i would stress that the task of the national administrations is already heavy. it is therefore desirable that they should be given a certain degree of flexibility. i am thinking in particular of the possibility of anticipating the payment of certain payments which are essential for the short-term cash flow of farmers. in the same spirit - and both our institutions are committed to this - the cap simplification programme, if well managed, with the right priorities, can lead to a reduction in costs for farmers. the critical financial situation of many farmers naturally leads to an emphasis on the short-term financial component of the measures. however, i believe that we should also consider implementing measures such as those relating to the conquest of new export markets, the promotion of products covered by geographical indications and other value-added products, the removal of non-tariff barriers, particularly those linked to health risks, or a more systematic use of the possibilities offered by producer organisations, for example to access the financing provided for by the regulation on the european fund for strategic investments. as regards the short term and the package of measures drawn up by the commission, i am pleased to be able to inform you, following the informal meeting of agriculture ministers in luxembourg yesterday, of the broad support that this package of measures has received, at least as a first response. but beyond short-term measures, and even if the medium-term forecasts seem more encouraging, there is still a need to consider more structural elements. i am thinking in particular of ways of ensuring a more balanced functioning of the food supply chain for the benefit of producers, a more rapid evaluation of the package of measures on milk put in place in response to the 2009 crisis, given that, in the current circumstances, we cannot wait until 2018 for a new evaluation to be carried out, or the development of financial instruments in response to the increased volatility of prices on agricultural markets. finally, i would like to stress our determination to put in place a solid package of measures and to continue to discuss with parliament, in particular measures to help the sector to be viable in the medium term.
member of the commission.– mr president, i am very happy to be here this evening with the president of the council of agriculture ministers, fernand etgen, and to outline the commission’s response to the difficulties currently facing european farmers. as the public representatives of the european union’s 507 million citizens, members are only too well aware of the challenges facing not only farmers, but the wider challenges facing the union. just last week, president juncker made his state of the union address to this house and, inevitably, much of that address was focused on the refugee crisis. to deal with this crisis, the president said that we ‘require a strong effort for european solidarity’. the european union has shown solidarity in its response to many crises and our response to the situation in the agricultural markets is a demonstration of solidarity with european farmers and particularly with those most affected by market developments over the past year. the commission has proposed a comprehensive support package for all 28 member states, which is worth eur 500 million, and which is described by president juncker as ‘a eur 500 million solidarity package for farmers’. the commission’s response reflects our commitment to support european farmers and european food production. i welcome the support for the package by the council yesterday and i hope that i can count on similar support from this house. in response to some concerns about the source of the funding for the package, i am happy to confirm that the money comes from within the existing margins of the agricultural budget and will not require recourse to the crisis reserve. for those who question the adequacy of the package as an effective response, i would say there are always some for whom any amount is never enough, whether it is eur 500 million or eur 1 billion, but now that we have this package announced, my focus is on delivering it. this is about what the commission can do for farmers and getting that done quickly, particularly to address the immediate cashflow challenges of the sector. the commission’s response must also be seen against the other budgetary pressures, particularly arising from the refugee crisis. indeed, an element of the commission’s package is to make available eur 30 million to ensure that eu milk will be available for the nutritional needs of refugees. we have been dealing for over a year now with the effects of the russian ban, which it is acknowledged has had repercussions on the farming sector. in addition to the continuing impact of that ban, we also have weakening demand in a number of key existing and prospective markets, notably china; we have a global oversupply of milk, to which all producing regions are contributing; and we have an impact of drought in certain member states. these issues have had a wide impact on farmers, particularly dairy farmers, who number about 700 000 right across the union. the commission’s package is an appropriate mix to meet the challenges being faced by different sectors and farmers in member states, and rather than focusing on individual measures i would urge members to look at the package as a whole. it is a package that is designed to address the cash-flow difficulties faced by farmers, on the one hand, through eur 420 million in direct targeted aid for all 28 member states, and on the other, by allowing member states to advance 70% of direct payments and up to 85% of area-based rural development payments from 16 october without the need for on-the-spot checks. the package will stabilise the market, through a new and very generously—resourced private storage scheme for skimmed milk powder and cheese as well as a new private storage scheme for pigmeat. additional funding will also be provided for the promotion of dairy products and pigmeat. the package will reinforce the work on improvements for better outcomes at all layers of the food supply chain – production, processing and retail – by promoting full use of the milk package, for example through exchange of best practices, including on unfair trading practices, as well as by thoroughly reporting on all aspects of the milk package already in 2016 and through a new dedicated high-level group that will look at specific measures such as risk hedging instruments for agricultural products and credit for farmers the package will also respond to societal challenges, like completing our work on the school milk scheme programme and the additional funding for refugees. these measures are taken in addition to the eur 820 million that is being allocated in member states – 17 member states in all – through voluntary coupled support for the dairy sector. i am confident that the necessary resources to cover all measures are available to ensure that it is an effective response, which will deliver on its objectives. the allocation of eur 420 million in member state envelopes has generated some inevitable reaction, but i want to emphasise that the distribution key that was used ensures that the envelopes are fair, and in a spirit of solidarity it provides a top-up for those member states that are most greatly affected by the negative circumstances, including the fall in pigmeat prices, the summer drought and the ongoing impact of the russian ban. last week, president juncker said that without farmers europe would not survive, and he gave a commitment that he would not leave farmers out in the cold. the commission’s package delivers on that commitment. it is a robust and decisive response. i want to emphasise the imperative need for rapid action and appeal to members for assistance in ensuring that this package is delivered quickly for the benefit of our farmers. the commission is already publishing the draft legal instruments, the delegated and implementing acts, and i encourage them to support these measures, particularly in relation to targeted aid, to ensure that the available funding can be provided quickly to those who need it. i do not believe that farmers should be left waiting for the urgent help that they need and which we can supply today, and i ask the house to support me in this approach.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner phil hogan, you are very welcome. i would like to thank all those who have made it possible for today's debate on the state of agriculture in the european union to take place. we have written to you, commissioner, on behalf of the epp group, to draw your attention to the difficult situation in the milk sector, as well as in the pigmeat, fruit and vegetable sectors. i am grateful to mrs esther herranz garcía for this initiative which she took during the summer break. the market situation is due, among other things, to the russian embargo on eu agricultural products. the baltic, finnish and also polish farmers were immediately and most affected. but very quickly it had an impact on the whole of european agriculture. the situation is aggravated by the decline in demand from china and the drought in certain areas. the epp group therefore called in the letter for the commission to react and take appropriate market measures. a concrete demand is that the eur 900 million from the sub-levy be used for market measures in the agricultural sector and, as a priority, for the stabilisation of the milk market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i personally have very little opinion on this and i am grateful to you, commissioner, for sharing your opinion. a more effective system would be one in which the commission could take quantities off the market at a certain price on an ad hoc basis. it would be an effective instrument to destabilize the trade chains and thereby limit market power. for example, if a large chain of retailers tries to reduce the price of butter by 80 cents a kilo and the commission decides overnight to withdraw 50 000 tonnes of butter from the market, the price reduction is likely to be in vain. we must respond to the new challenges with new instruments. the intervention instrument of the last century cannot cope with the present situation. thank you for your response, commissioner. i hope that further action will follow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not sure i understood the question correctly. we have very different vat rates. we have a very low tax rate on food, in the uk it is almost zero. vat is a national issue. i would welcome a pan-european harmonization of foodstuffs in particular. this would certainly improve the situation, in the interests of consumers in countries where such high vat rates are levied on food.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. i am particularly pleased that commissioner hogan is taking part in the debate today and is leading it with us. we appreciate your efforts to meet us, and i think we can all agree in this house that the situation on the agricultural markets calls for a package of measures. the farmers' protests were justified. i am sure that you will understand that the on-the-spot checks do not have to be completed in order to give priority to direct payments up to 70%? and what specific measures will you take now? i can welcome the spontaneous actions of my colleague mr deß. opening up new markets - yes, but this also includes standardising export requirements in the veterinary field. i welcome a moderate increase in the eu intervention price. however, i cannot accept a return to small states and mutual closure of borders.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, you still haven't spoken about the crisis today. you said you had trouble, that's a misrepresentation. we have a real crisis, and we are announcing it, because the policy of market liberalization, of world market orientation, of producing more, has now finally hit the wall. what is the commission's response? opening up more new markets, vietnam, colombia, mexico. this is crazy! we are only exacerbating the crisis if we now think we simply have to look for other markets. and the farmers are being consoled with 20 euros per cow to keep them quiet. the instruments you and the agriculture ministers have presented are from the moth-box. it's really the '60s when we say "storage". perhaps export promotion at the end. and now a new high-level group. this is really nothing but a total failure on the part of the commission, but also on the part of the member states, to respond to the crisis. i can only say that we must bring supply and demand into line in europe. and the farmers who demonstrated are ready to do so. they don't want a few handouts, they want this market policy. and you refuse to do so. all i can say is that less is more and quality is better than mass production. and you're still not on the trail, but you still want a world market. that's wrong!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. six months ago, we were given a taste of the great opportunity of the free market, of the liberal market. the forecasts were for demand and growth of 2% per annum. what do we have today? today we are talking about a crisis and we are looking for the culprits - some culprits have already been identified here. but i say this crisis is homemade! we worked for it! they talk about liquidity problems and want to solve them with cheap loans and early repayments. but the loans are making the companies even more indebted. and if you prefer payments, what do you prefer if the crisis continues? and it looks like it. we'll get liquidity at a good price. and we can get a good price with functioning markets. we can't control demand, but we can control supply. we can use that leverage, and we can do it quickly and very specifically. with this aggressive world market policy, you're draining our farms. they are even driving to the wall the companies that have only just invested to be sustainable.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, there is a saying: 'if the horse is dead, get off!' i would like to translate this saying: change your advisors if they have no new ideas for you! because the ideas you brought in are really ideas from the last century. no other industry, no other industry produces with its eyes closed to a saturated market. and it is not right to use taxpayers' money to buy out surplus production, to store it or to export it elsewhere. so there's a set-up, and the set-up is to reduce the amount. it's like driving a car, sometimes you put on the gas, sometimes you put on the brakes. now we need to brake. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i would like to remind you once again, commissioner, that if the horse is dead, get off!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for allowing us to have this debate here tonight. i have a little bit of the impression that we are talking about the situation - now i'll speak specifically for my region and my country - almost a little bit worse than it actually is. i believe that the commission has done the right thing. and i don't think we should underestimate the measures now. 500 million euros is a lot of money. i could of course imagine more, especially more for promotion. i think we've seen in the years, especially 2013 and 2014, when we had more markets, especially to china and of course also to russia, that the price of milk was very, very good there. i think we should take these opportunities to other parts of the world. and we should also get more money for it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the commissioner for allowing us to discuss this matter today. i do not want to repeat everything my colleagues have said, except to say a small thank you for the programme, because it is a real step in the right direction. and you also live in the market economy of politics. and politics is also a sign when you provide money. i would like to point out another problem which i regard as the main problem, namely the dairy sector. why don't we move on? i think our main problem in the dairy sector is that our regulatory measures are from the last century. we must give them a market economy. i am not referring only to the commission and the members of parliament, but also to farmers and dairies. our intervention mechanisms are too slow, too cumbersome and too planned. the dairies must be able to store milk powder and butter more responsibly. and we must also bring more market economy into pricing. it is incomprehensible in itself that we still do not have contract prices and daily prices for milk production. if we do this together, we can look to the future with optimism.
in writing. ‒ on 13 september, the four political groups epp, s&d, alde and greens tabled a joint motion for a resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. in this document, the four political groups describe the thematic priorities which they consider to be the most important for the european union in the coming year. the motion for a resolution contains a number of demands which should be welcomed. the aim is to use eu funds effectively, prevent mismanagement and improve budgetary control. the commission is also calling for an evaluation of the costly common agricultural policy. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's external assistance programmes, in particular the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). on the other hand, the motion also contains a number of demands for further centralisation of the eu towards a full economic and political union, disregard for the principle of subsidiarity for example in the call for women's quotas and rejection of restrictive measures as part of an overall policy to deal with the current refugee crisis. this includes, for example, expressly condemning the temporary reintroduction of border controls at internal borders, although this is explicitly allowed under the schengen acquis. the motion for a resolution contains far too few constructive criticisms of the commission's work. i therefore rejected this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 13 september, the four political groups epp, s&d, alde and greens tabled a joint motion for a resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. in this document, the four political groups describe the thematic priorities which they consider to be the most important for the european union in the coming year. the motion for a resolution contains a number of demands which should be welcomed. the aim is to use eu funds effectively, prevent mismanagement and improve budgetary control. the commission is also calling for an evaluation of the costly common agricultural policy. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's external assistance programmes, in particular the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). on the other hand, the motion also contains a number of demands for further centralisation of the eu towards a full economic and political union, disregard for the principle of subsidiarity for example in the call for women's quotas and rejection of restrictive measures as part of an overall policy to deal with the current refugee crisis. this includes, for example, expressly condemning the temporary reintroduction of border controls at internal borders, although this is explicitly allowed under the schengen acquis. the motion for a resolution contains far too few constructive criticisms of the commission's work. i therefore rejected this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 13 september, the four political groups epp, s&d, alde and greens tabled a joint motion for a resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. in this document, the four political groups describe the thematic priorities which they consider to be the most important for the european union in the coming year. the motion for a resolution contains a number of demands which should be welcomed. the aim is to use eu funds effectively, prevent mismanagement and improve budgetary control. the commission is also calling for an evaluation of the costly common agricultural policy. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's external assistance programmes, in particular the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). on the other hand, the motion also contains a number of demands for further centralisation of the eu towards a full economic and political union, disregard for the principle of subsidiarity for example in the call for women's quotas and rejection of restrictive measures as part of an overall policy to deal with the current refugee crisis. this includes, for example, expressly condemning the temporary reintroduction of border controls at internal borders, although this is explicitly allowed under the schengen acquis. the motion for a resolution contains far too few constructive criticisms of the commission's work. i therefore rejected this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ on 13 september, the four political groups epp, s&d, alde and greens tabled a joint motion for a resolution on the european commission's work programme for 2016. in this document, the four political groups describe the thematic priorities which they consider to be the most important for the european union in the coming year. the motion for a resolution contains a number of demands which should be welcomed. the aim is to use eu funds effectively, prevent mismanagement and improve budgetary control. the commission is also calling for an evaluation of the costly common agricultural policy. the commission will also be able to provide information on the implementation of the eu's external assistance programmes, in particular the european asylum support office (easo) and the european asylum support office (easo). on the other hand, the motion contains a number of demands for further centralisation of the eu towards a full economic and political union, a complete reorganisation of the monetary union along the lines of the italian lira, disregard for the principle of subsidiarity - for example in the call for women's quotas - and rejection of restrictive measures as part of an overall policy to deal with the current refugee crisis. this includes, for example, expressly condemning the temporary reintroduction of border controls at internal borders, although this is explicitly allowed under the schengen acquis. i had to reject this path towards more centralisation and socialism.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we are faced with a historic test in the face of the movements of refugees, and we can only cope with it if we work together. solidarity within and solidarity without. that is why we are about to vote on an emergency measure to relocate 120 000 asylum seekers from italy, greece and hungary to other eu member states. but we can only manage the ongoing humanitarian crisis if we also think about the external dimension of the problem. the situation in syria, but also and above all in the countries neighbouring syria, is deteriorating further and further. every day, more people are making the dangerous journey to europe. we all know that. the conflict in syria is now entering its fifth year. a political solution is not in sight. violence has continued to explode in recent months. people who escape with their lives still lose their livelihood and their livelihood and their home. more than half the people in this country live in extreme poverty, and those four million registered syrians who have found refuge in jordan, lebanon and turkey, thanks to the admirable generosity of their neighbors, are living, or better survive, in difficult conditions. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is simply because the host countries, particularly jordan and lebanon, are reaching their borders, and those aid workers who continue to help the most needy in the most difficult circumstances in syria and neighbouring countries are also reaching their borders. unhcr is running out of money. many of you have met mr guterres here this week. but, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot abandon our colleagues, our helpers and above all the unhcr! the madad fund was established in december 2014 to provide basic services to refugees on the ground and to assist host countries. mrs mogherini reminded us in this house just two days ago that this fund should be endowed with four billion euros. so far, however, ladies and gentlemen, only five million euros have been contributed by germany and three million by italy to the 41 million euros from the eu budget. i therefore asked prime minister bettel, as president-in-office of the council, in a letter, with your agreement, to take immediate steps to ensure that the outstanding appropriations are finally paid, in accordance with our resolution of last week. (applause from the centre) and i also call on the commission to make available all the funds available from the eu budget for aid, particularly in lebanon, jordan, syria, where possible, and turkey. ladies and gentlemen, if we do not succeed in this, we will have many more problems than we have today. our credibility also depends on the actual payment of the funds we provide to these countries. so i thank you for your support. i'm going to publish this letter. and i asked mr bettel, in the event of an extraordinary european council meeting next week, to ask the heads of state or government to pay this money immediately. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not we are in an extraordinary political situation and europe is facing great challenges. that is why we are holding a special session today, which my group supports. that is why the important signal we are giving today is that europe is capable of delivering, particularly the european institutions. we are going to send a signal of solidarity in europe today, and i support your position on behalf of the epp group that we should send a signal of solidarity to the outside world. i would also like to say on behalf of my group that today's signal is only the first step. we need other questions, too. the question of safe third countries, of external border controls and also of the return of rejected persons must be discussed. this is part of the package, part of a clear european response. today, as the epp group, we want to show that europe is ready to act, and that is why we support the proposals you have made.
i would like to thank you very much, mr timmermans. ladies and gentlemen, all the groups have had a short time to speak. i think it was clear that the overwhelming majority expressed their support for this letter calling on mr bettel to pay the funds for the camps in jordan, lebanon and turkey immediately. thank you again for this.
we now come to the vote on the council decision introducing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy, greece and hungary. i have a number of amendments from the efdd group to this resolution. the efdd group has tabled a number of amendments in the negative. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so don't be surprised by this. you will see this group on both the pro- and the anti- lists.
written explanations of vote
in writing. ‒ after the failure of the council negotiations on the resettlement of 40 000 refugees to relieve the burden on the first host countries, the commission came up with a new proposal and increased the number of refugees. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. although i believe that eu countries should show solidarity with the countries most affected by the current situation, i strongly condemn the approach of the commission and the president of the european parliament to use the current migration crisis as an opportunity to further centralise the eu rather than to propose a sustainable solution. i therefore rejected the commission's proposal. firstly, existing agreements such as the dublin regulation must be respected. at the same time, we urgently need a coherent approach that takes a holistic approach to managing the flows of migration into europe. alfa has presented such a concept, entitled 'culture of help rather than culture of welcome'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. in the long term, the aim is to establish safe zones for refugees in cooperation with other countries, to take on national sponsorship and to strengthen cooperation with third countries on the return of rejected asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposes to relocate 120 000 refugees from italy, greece and hungary over the next two years. although i believe that in the current situation the eu countries should show solidarity with the countries most affected, and i have voted in parliament to resettle 40 000 refugees, it is nonsensical to envisage a major resettlement until the basic mechanisms of eu asylum policy have been restored. germany currently receives twice as many asylum applications as would be required under the dublin rules, while other eu countries are participating below average in the eu's common asylum policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are respected. at the same time, we urgently need a coherent approach that takes a holistic approach to managing the flows of migration into europe. alfa has presented such a concept, entitled 'helping culture instead of welcome culture'. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. the long-term objectives are to establish un refugee protection zones, to take on country sponsorships and to strengthen cooperation with third countries on the return of rejected asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ after the failure of the council negotiations on the resettlement of 40 000 refugees to relieve the burden on the first host countries, the commission came up with a new proposal and increased the number of refugees. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. although i believe that eu countries should show solidarity with the countries most affected by the current situation, i strongly condemn the approach of the commission and the president of the european parliament to use the current migration crisis as an opportunity to further centralise the eu rather than to propose a sustainable solution. i therefore rejected the commission's proposal. firstly, existing agreements such as the dublin regulation must be respected. at the same time, we urgently need a coherent approach that takes a holistic approach to managing the flows of migration into europe. alfa has presented such a concept, entitled 'culture of help rather than culture of welcome'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. in the long term, the aim is to establish safe zones for refugees in cooperation with other countries, to take on national sponsorship and to strengthen cooperation with third countries on the return of rejected asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ after the failure of the council negotiations on the resettlement of 40 000 refugees to relieve the first host countries, the commission's new proposal had to increase the number of refugees. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union. these figures are also not adequate in the light of real migration. although i am convinced that the eu states should show solidarity with the countries most affected by the current situation, i strongly condemn the approach of the commission and the president of the parliament to use the current migration crisis as an opportunity to further centralize the eu. it is also inappropriate for mrs merkel to single-handedly and without consulting the other states to set a line which the eu is then supposed to push through against legitimate opposition. i therefore rejected the commission's proposal. when central european systems such as dublin and schengen have clearly failed, short-term measures must be taken to deal with acute difficulties. this includes, for example, the immediate and comprehensive reintroduction of border controls. we need a consensual european solution to reform the foundations of migration policy. we have called for the establishment of protection zones in the regions of origin of migrants.
in writing. ‒ almost all migrants want to go to germany; they were invited by chancellor merkel. other member states, however, assess their integration capacity very realistically and reject the unconditional acceptance of migrants. that is why there can be no mandatory eu quotas for the distribution of refugees. that is why i voted against the motion. on the other hand, it is not possible to persuade the eu parliament to decide on the distribution keys for the redistribution of migrants, but to make no concrete sign of relieving the reception capacities in the strasbourg-ortenau eurodistrict. i therefore repeat my demand of 7 september, which the green group joined two days later: in strasbourg, 220 000 square metres of parliament buildings are empty 300 days a year. each of our 750 congressmen's offices has its own toilet, shower and folding bed. kitchens and canteens are fully operational. there's a gym, too. the parliament's officials' offices, which are also vacant, can be used for refugee counselling and individual counselling services. meeting rooms can be used for language teaching, training and information events. the underground garages could be used to store the relief supplies for the region. the travel costs of parliament's staff and officials, which are temporarily eliminated, can be used much more effectively to provide care for refugees. mr president, i would ask you to apply the urgency clauses of the rules of procedure here too.
the explanations of vote are closed.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. my group, in accordance with the rules of procedure, is requesting a debate, without a resolution, on the deadly us airstrike on the doctors without borders hospital in kunduz. the point should be debated on wednesday morning - in our view at 8.30 a.m. - in the presence of the high representative, mrs mogherini. and to accommodate some of the groups, i also suggest that we do this as a round of the group speakers. last saturday, october 3, us military attacks on the hospital killed 12 staff and at least 7 patients, including three children. 37 people, including 19 employees, were seriously injured. according to msf, between 2:08 and 3:15 a.m. on 3 october, the msf trauma centre in kundus was hit by several airstrikes at intervals of about fifteen minutes. the main hospital building, which housed the intensive care unit, emergency rooms, and a physical therapy station, was repeatedly and very precisely hit in each attack. as early as september 29, the hospital's geo-data was communicated to both the international coalition and the afghan military and civilian authorities, but the bombings continued. eu countries are involved in the war in afghanistan. but the eu is also involved in development aid, more than any other country. many european aid organizations, including doctors without borders, are involved. that is why we are calling for clarification!
i have to say, madam president, i support the motion on behalf of my group, which has just been very well justified by gabi zimmer. i must say that i am relieved by the speech and the announcement by president obama, who has already announced a full investigation into these terrible events in kunduz. but i think we also need an international debate about what happened, especially because the overall development in afghanistan is frightening and we have, in my opinion, lacked a debate about it. in view of the debates we are having tomorrow, i think that, in the light of the world situation, there is every reason to include afghanistan on the agenda, for the terrible reason that mrs zimmer has described.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on employment in the european parliament very clearly welcomes this action by the commission. we believe that greece is in dire need of help after years of crisis. we particularly welcome the fact that frontloading is taking place. in particular, we welcome the fact that there need not be any own subsidies from greece. greece is in dire need of help. the crisis has led to the bankruptcy of over 250 000 businesses in greece. we need urgent and rapid help for greece. i would personally caution against saying too quickly that we want a check on success. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we'll have to wait for that trial. it takes patience, even in this house. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the commission first of all for putting forward such a proposal so quickly after the council had spent months in wrangling to come to a real joint position on the fate of greece. it's the right answer. we need to invest in the greek economy after the unilateral austerity policy of recent years. how else is this country going to get back on its feet if there's no investment? the only instrument the european union has for this is cohesion policy. we've got to make sense of this! the projects selected for the old period of support were selected in conjunction with the task force for greece set up by the commission. and this task force has always been there to report to the committee of the regions and has been monitoring the projects which are now to be 100% funded in greece in the next few months. what perhaps not every member knows is that if we do not release this money, greece will not only have the problem of having to pay 5% of it, but will have to pay back the entire 95% that these projects have already cost the commission. that would be an absolute disaster. of course, it has to be controlled. we need to check everything. it is our duty as a parliament to accompany this. that's right! but to pretend now - and unfortunately some colleagues do this - that it is a tragedy that we are now budget-neutral in our approach to giving money to greece to support the labour market and economic development, i do not think that is appropriate. i hope that tomorrow we will not only have an overwhelming majority, but a majority as large as possible, so that we can actually turn this sign of solidarity into a practical reality. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you said: it is not invested and it must be invested that's why we need the funds. have you ever wondered why there's no investment? why doesn't anyone go and invest in greece? why doesn't it happen? they always say, "it doesn't happen", but the question is, why?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. at the moment, the greek state has no free money to invest in anything, which is the result of the austerity policies of the troika, not only the european union. we really need to send a clear signal. it is the case all over the world that in certain crisis situations the public sector must take the lead. this is the money from the cohesion fund that greece is due. we make it possible for the expenditure to actually be made.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, today, above all, i would like to thank the greek people and the people of europe. from the outside, we are discussing very technical issues today. it is a matter of 7% more prefinancing, it is a matter of 2 billion more cofinancing from the european side, a matter of a faster release of the 5% payment and technical administrative support. outside this house and the commission, few citizens probably understand what all this really means. but the essence of what we are discussing today is much, much more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the question is whether we can work together to find pragmatic solutions to problems in a crisis situation, or whether we sacrifice these solutions on the altar of populism. the european union has always been a victim of legal dead ends. only negotiations at eye level and reliable solutions can pave the way for a positive development in greece. the commission proposal takes this into account. the unilateral policy of austerity in recent years has failed. the tough conditions imposed - also at european level - have contributed to the current economic downturn in greece. and now the commission has also come to the point where it is realizing that we must follow our words with action. the fact that greece can benefit more quickly and easily from a european investment policy is a first step in the right direction. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that's why the investment has to come now. 25% of all public investment in greece is financed by european structural policy. to boost the economy, this money needs to be available now, and not just somehow, but very targeted, for meaningful projects that create jobs that are environmentally sustainable and transparent. that is why the fourth point in this proposal - the technical assistance point - is so central. the greek administration now has to do a great deal, hand in hand with the european commission, to implement these projects in a meaningful way. we have a lot of work to do. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion. the question now arises, therefore, is whether we are reliable european partners on this point too, and whether we as europeans stand by greece in these difficult circumstances and in this difficult situation. my group says yes! the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. that is why we support the commission's proposal as a first step in the right direction.
i have to say, madam president, there is no question that we must help greece. greece has also been helped a lot. let's remember this once again. the last multiannual financial framework provided for 42 billion euro of assistance for greece. and the rate of aid has been increased from the usual 85% to 95%. the 10% increase is worth at least four billion euros. and yet greece was not able to draw on two billion euros of these funds. this was mainly due to the inability of the greek administration to meet all the requirements. what can we learn from this? firstly, we are now increasing the eu's co-financing to 100%. in addition, these funds can now be called up in advance before all the necessary documents have been submitted. the commission has also decided to make a contribution to the budget of the european social fund. but i wonder, is this really the right medicine for this unfortunate patient? i think not! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but full funding is always a strategic risk, because when a grant recipient is no longer required to provide its own services, the risk of not making any meaningful investments is of course enormously increased. in addition, the administration in greece should be improved so that the funds that are available can be used in a meaningful way. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this can't be happening. that's why we're convinced that this is not the right medicine. instead, we must finally face the truth: greece is over-indebted and needs a debt cut of 50% and must be let out of the eurozone.
i have to say, madam president, we have a reasonable, unbureaucratic proposal which we can only accept. and yet it is wrong for some of my colleagues here to pretend that this is a gift to greece. it is a question of making a sensible correction to our own - and sometimes ineffective - award guidelines. if this approach proves successful, it could be used in the same way in other economically weak member states. an eu policy of support that follows the logic of rapid success rates and increasingly focuses on private investment will not be successful in the long term and will not be sustainable. finally, cohesion policy should function as a solidarity-based redistribution mechanism, rather than following a questionable macroeconomic conditioning - a conditioning which is itself the cause of economic and political crises.
i have to say, madam president, one of the speakers said that the citizens do not understand what we are talking about here today. i wonder what the people would say if they understood what we are deciding today. when i look around here - in this impressively empty parliament - i sometimes wonder whether the decision is actually being put in this parliament so that the citizens do not even know what is being decided. today we are deciding that greece can claim funds at least eur 35 billion, without adding a single cent of co-financing immediately, stante pede; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and you can imagine that, of course, it's going to be a hands-on thing, because it's going to cost you nothing. no more co-financing is required. and if all that money is spent quickly, then i don't think the projects that you have to choose so quickly are going to be very good. i think we are being very irresponsible here with our citizens' tax dollars.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. nothing is good in greece. the committee on budgetary control was there last week and visited seven projects from the priority list of 181 projects. we have found a lack of money. the question is, where does the lack of money come from? it is, of course, because projects have been funded for many years. fourteen years. now the end of the flagpole has been reached. the question is, mr vice-president, what are we going to do with all this investment waste? the commission's proposal is not helpful, it does not really solve the problems, because the problems are obviously elsewhere. and it would be nice, my greek colleagues, if greece could help itself. we have seen that there are big problems with land appropriations long-standing procedures. why are there no measures to reduce these procedures? we'd have faster and better investments. why are decision-making processes not made in such a way that those who have to make the decisions in the projects - namely the project managers - can also make the decisions? the government is still - like its predecessors - taking everything into its own hands and refusing to decide. it would have been nice if the commission had indicated which projects from the 2007-2013 list should now be financed. i would urge you to avoid continuing in greece as we have done so far. the future selection of projects must be much more careful and much more deliberate, otherwise we will again be faced with investment debris at the end of the next period, when we will then have to decide which and how much money must be repaid. i consider what has been presented today to be a breach of the law and a serious mistake. i see that there is a broad consensus here, following the motto: much helps much. it's not gonna help. let us at least learn from the past and avoid the worst mistakes for the future. however, this requires considerable follow-up work by the eu commission, especially as regards the current project status and the future project selection. if it goes on like this, then good night! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i shall not vote for it tomorrow because i do not think it is appropriate and i think it is a mistake because it will only exacerbate the problems of today in the future. i have to tell you, as the budget controller, i don't really care who screwed up. i just want it to get better. but i do not see any improvement in the situation, and i see it with great regret. it needs to be improved, and it would be in the best interests of the greeks themselves. so, please, help me! thank you, thank you!
i have to say, madam president, greece and no end. so the eu commission now wants to pay even more money and even faster money from eu funds to greece, mind you, on top of the many hundreds of billions of bailout dollars that have been blown away. first of all, this is a waste of money. since the introduction of the euro cash, greece has already received 58 billion net from the eu budget. again, not as a bailout billions, but as a net profit. still, it was all for nothing. greece is now closer to the level of the third world than to that of the first. secondly, the investment programme is not economically viable; it is wrong. greece does not lack investment, but greece lacks reforms that make investment attractive. there's a reason why greece isn't getting investment. thirdly, greece is insolvent. greece is no longer helped by leaving the euro, or it would help but it is not coming. that's why germany has to leave.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i very much welcome the report and i welcome the growing recognition at international level that local authorities in developing countries must play a central role as state actors in development cooperation. because it is the local authorities that are closest to the population. they are the ones who know what the social, environmental and economic needs are, the problems, but also the challenges on the ground. they also play an important role in the processes of democratisation and decentralisation and must be supported and promoted accordingly. so, they also need increased financial support. more funds are needed here. they must be more closely involved as full players in the implementation of the 11th european development fund, both at the level of the partner countries and regions and in their sectoral and budgetary support. the commissioner, in the context of european cooperation, needs a genuine political dialogue with the local authorities. we need to start this in order to be able to identify ongoing progress and difficulties and to enable perspectives for more efficient aid at local level.
i have to say, madam president, my group also supports this report. i think it is a good and balanced report, which adequately highlights the difficulties of development policy and the fight against poverty and proposes the right solutions. the principle of subsidiarity is indeed applied here, and strengthening local authorities is the right way to go. other instruments such as the use of microcredit or private sector participation and the raising of private sector funds are also important elements of a successful development policy. i would also like to point out that what has been so well developed here should also be applied in other contexts. we have just had a debate on how to get the special aid for greece under way. and this special aid - where we have now suddenly made available 35 billion euros from a medium-term financial plan which was supposed to extend over several years - does not respect the principle of subsidiarity. big projects are suddenly being funded here. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the projects. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the informal european council meeting of 23 september 2015 (2015/2859 ((rsp)). normally i would give the floor to the president-in-office, but he is still on his way to the chamber. i therefore give the floor to the president of the commission.
president of the commission. the european commission is well placed to take the floor in place of the president of the council. (applause) we, mr president, as members of the european council on 23 september, did our part to move forward on the issue of migration and refugees. the european commission - you remember this very well - had already submitted proposals to the council in may. the council took a little longer to agree on these proposals. we as the commission would have preferred it if the council - and in particular the ministers of the interior - could have agreed unanimously on a solidarity-based distribution of refugees in europe. this was not possible in view of adverse circumstances, especially in the context of internal political developments. we have then - and this is not a disaster - remembered the european treaty, its meaning, its clear provisions. we have, as i promised here in the house, applied the community method and decided by majority vote in the council of ministers of the interior. this has been a good sign, both from an interinstitutional and from a working point of view. i salute the president of the council. donald, you want to go, or should i? so i welcome and am grateful for the european council's massive display of tenderness. we would have preferred a unanimous decision. this was not possible, and so the community method was adopted. and that was the way i felt it was right. we should not now be plunging into this morass of mutual blame. we have a decision to make. this decision must be implemented. and we're doing it with all due speed. we have acted, as a commission, with a rapidity that no one thought we were capable of. there is a european council on 23 september. we have proposed to the institutions, and therefore to the two branches of the budgetary authority, our proposals and related ones for 2015 and 2016, which we will do in the weeks to come. we have proposed a budget of 800 million to the two arms of the budgetary authority. i am glad that the european parliament, once again, has been informed that it will decide quickly in committee on the 8th, i think, and in plenary on the 15th. the european parliament is living up to the common tasks which are ours. he had already given the green light to the commission's proposal to distribute solidarity on behalf of refugees. this in fact obliged the european council to do the same. imagine for a moment that the european council had annulled the decision of the parliament... i am therefore grateful to you, mr president, and to the members of this house for having acted with the rapidity which characterizes the work of this house. you will do the same on budgetary matters, since it is a question of increasing the resources of frontex, europol and the european asylum support office. we are going to deploy up to 600 officials, commission and member states, in the coming days and weeks to assist greece in the protection of its external borders. by deploying such a large number of staff to greece, we are in fact doubling the number of civil servants working in dg home, as in the directorate-general for home affairs and justice. i thank the member states which are participating in this initiative and i would like to encourage those which have not yet done so to follow the example of austria, germany and others. president tusk, you yourself, mr president, and i myself have seen the president of the turkish republic, mr erdogan. turkey is making an extraordinary effort, as it is hosting 2.2 million refugees, including from iraq and syria, on its territory. it is obvious that we need turkey to protect our external borders. the commission will do its utmost to help the turkish republic's efforts. we cannot only concentrate on our own internal affairs, we must also deal with the problems that exist on the periphery of europe. in fact, it's the same problem. the european union and turkey must walk together and develop, in harmony, a common policy of welcome, protection and follow-up for the unfortunate who come to us. i have submitted to the turkish president, following an agreement with the president of the european council and the president of the european parliament, a memorandum on cooperation between turkey and the european union in the field of refugees. we will make this document public this afternoon at 3 p.m. i can't do the fair now because we have agreed with our turkish friends to do the fair at 3 o'clock this afternoon. we are paying particular attention to greece. it is necessary that 66 000 greek refugees and asylum seekers be distributed in the other member states of the european union. i have delegated to athens the director-general responsible for structural reforms in greece, mr verwey, who is negotiating on the spot the programmes to be implemented by greece. i did the same for turkey. as from tomorrow morning, the commission's senior officials will be present in ankara to negotiate the details of the arrangements with turkey. moreover, i have asked the commissioners responsible - there are several of them, including frans timmermans, who does not know yet - to go to turkey to negotiate the political arrangements with the turkish ministers which we are in the process of concluding with the turkish authorities. this common policy between turkey and the european union is not an affair which would concern exclusively civil servants and high officials, even though they are of extraordinary competence. i believe that the negotiations between the european union and turkey must be politicised, in the noble sense of the term. these policies obviously have a cost. i am observing, not with concern but with interest, a debate currently taking place in europe as to whether or not the costs involved should be excluded from the interpretation of the stability and growth pact. the stability and growth pact, to which we have attached, en l'enrichissant, a part de lecture économique, allows us to respond to this situation but i would not like our versions to be totally irresponsible. it will therefore be necessary to see, on the basis of an analysis which the commission is undertaking, whether, on an ad hoc basis, some countries can escape from a nuanced application of the stability and growth pact. but we don't do it lightly. today we are discussing the cost of refugee policy. tomorrow, we could, if we were not in the guard, discuss d'autre chose. but the commission, on this point, is open not only to all adventures but to all suggestions. mr president, i will answer all the questions you have asked me after having listened attentively to the president-in-office, whom i greet among us.
president of the european council.– mr president, the real test for any community comes at a time of crisis. just as we check our banks using stress tests, today life itself is using a dramatic migration stress test to check our community. and that is what the last european council was about. you know its results. allow me then to share a more general thought with you, especially as, in 10 days’ time, the next european council will be dealing with the same problem. historical changes and threats on a large scale demand a sense of dignity and self-belief from every community, particularly now, when the whole world is focusing its attention on europe and on its reaction to the wave of refugees. europe is subject to increasingly scathing criticism, and our internal disagreements and mutual recriminations only help our opponents. almost everyone in europe has joined the chorus of critics, while very few defend its good name. in the united nations, one could have the impression that europe is the worst place in the world for refugees. believe me, i felt isolated there when i defended europe’s good reputation, trying to convince the audience that the truth about europe is completely different. hundreds of thousands of refugees go to europe because they know that our community is still the most open and tolerant of all. it is still we who respect international standards and conventions, and it is europe where people – all people – are safer than anywhere else. let us not let europe become a scapegoat as a result of our quarrelling and blaming each other without restraint. otherwise, before long, theocracies will start to lecture us on what religious tolerance means; dictators will tell us what democracy means; and those responsible for this massive exodus will tell us how to treat refugees. in fact, they are already doing this. there are countries which admit virtually no refugees but which are most vocal when it comes to urging europe to show more openness. that is why we have to take care of our good name –together. we keep talking about solidarity, about quotas and greater assistance for refugees on our soil, and for those who remain in camps in countries outside the eu. let us remember, however, that solidarity requires mutual understanding and respect. without solidarity among member states, we will not be able to help others. it is our common obligation to assist refugees as well as to protect the eu’s external borders. everyone must take up this obligation and at the same time, no one should be left alone with the burden. that is how i understand solidarity. we have to respect commonly agreed rules. when someone says that they have no intention of observing european law, for example the dublin regulation or quotas, they undermine the essence of solidarity and our community. observing rules will always mean sacrificing part of our interests. i would like to dedicate these words to the hungarians and the italians, to the slovaks and the greeks. let us have no illusions. today, we have to count mainly on ourselves. the world around us does not intend to help europe. many of our neighbours have much bigger problems to tackle, and some look with satisfaction at our troubles. for us, refugees are specific people – individuals who expect our help. there are forces around us, however, for whom the wave of refugees is just dirty business or a political bargaining chip. we are slowly witnessing the birth of a new form of political pressure, and some even call it a kind of new hybrid war in which migratory waves have become a tool, a weapon against neighbours. this requires particular sensitivity and responsibility on our side. dear colleagues, you all know the notion of ethics of responsibility from the works of weber – not manfred but max weber. today, the ethics of responsibility requires us to refrain from extremes. and by extremes i mean both, on the one hand, anti-immigration rhetoric and, on the other, inviting everyone who wishes to come, despite being unable to take them under our roof. we need to understand that today millions of potential refugees and migrants – not only from syria but also from africa, afghanistan, pakistan, iraq and other places – are dreaming about europe. for all refugees, easy access to europe and lack of external borders have become, alongside the willkommen-politik, a magnet attracting them to us. during my visits to the region, whoever i spoke to – presidents, or refugees in the camps, in turkey, jordan or egypt – warned me of one thing: that a potential victory by assad’s regime, which is more likely today because of iran’s and russia’s engagement in syria, will result in the next migratory wave. yesterday this message was confirmed by president erdoğan. according to turkish estimates, another three million potential refugees may come from aleppo and its neighbourhood. declaring solidarity is always greeted with applause, but calling for responsibility and common sense hardly ever. practising solidarity is a lot harder than preaching it. i am speaking as a decades-long practitioner. this is why i ask you all to show responsibility and common sense. the first commandment today is the restoration of control on the eu’s external borders as a sine qua non of an effective, humanitarian and safe migratory policy. tomorrow, in the european parliament, you will hear angela merkel and françois hollande. we all know how much depends on them. in this crisis situation they have both demonstrated beautiful moral gestures which we all highly appreciate. tomorrow, they must pass an even harder exam, an exam in responsibility for the protection of the european community, and its external borders. otherwise, they, and all of us, will become responsible for the re-emergence of walls and barriers on our internal borders, here in europe. we have to say it finally, loud and clear: europe without its external borders equals europe without schengen. europe without its external borders will become a breeding ground for fear in each and every one of us. and this will lead us, sooner rather than later, to a political catastrophe. what ordinary people expect from politicians is, first and foremost, effectiveness and determination. if the leaders of mainstream politics do not realise this, people will start to look for different kinds of leadership, radical and ruthless, because what people want from their leaders above all is a guarantee of order and security for their own community. either we will face up to the challenge, or others will take our place. the queue of political machos is quite long, but there is still time to stop them. and that depends entirely on us. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! i should like to begin by thanking the president-in-office for his presence. it is the first time that the president of the council has come to the european parliament to report on the proceedings and to debate the matter, even after an informal council. i thank you very much for that. people are uncertain about the issue of migration - we all feel it. i therefore believe - and i support my group, the epp - that we must first tell people that we are also in a position to give answers. who would have thought six months ago, three quarters of a year ago, that european ships - british ships, german ships - were now in the mediterranean, working together with italy and malta to save lives? who would have thought six months ago that we would have succeeded in creating a distribution mechanism for 160,000 refugees in the european union and decided to practice solidarity? who would have thought that we would start this autumn to put in place a robust mandate in the mediterranean, so that we do not let the gangs dictate the agenda, but that the state takes responsibility again? and who would have thought that at the european council last week we would have been able to put a lot more money on the table to help the united nations and to organise aid on the ground? it is important that we also talk about successes, not just problems, in order to build people's trust in the ability of their representatives to act. the second thing i want to say today is that of course there are still many open construction sites. i would like to say on behalf of my group that we do not need new ideas now, but we need implementation, implementation and enforcement. we have a great need. the commission has put forward a package that sets the right direction, and there is clear political support in the european parliament for the commission's package under the leadership of jean-claude juncker: yes to the hotspots, yes to help at the external borders! please, not talk now, but do! yes to return: last year, two-thirds of all refugees in europe were turned away. yes to the repatriation of rejected applicants! not talk, but do! yes to safe countries of origin. all the candidate countries, as proposed by the commission, should be designated as safe third countries. not talk, but do! therefore, implementation, implementation is now the time. i would like to say a word specifically about turkey, because yesterday we had talks with president erdoğan: we support the classification of turkey as a safe country of origin, we also support the joint border security activities that are being carried out and, of course, the financial efforts that we intend to make. but we must also express that we keep reminding erdoğan and the turkish republic of the principles: if a country is a candidate for accession, we expect the implementation of civil rights at home, and we also expect turkey to deal properly with internal issues, especially in the kurdish conflict. europe must not turn a blind eye to this issue just because we need turkey as a partner now. big challenges mean we have to give people direction. one point of reference is that europe is a continent of humanity. the right to asylum is enshrined in our charter of fundamental rights. it's anchored there and not for disposal. we are proud of our core values. in this respect, angela merkel's statement that we as a continent can do this is also true. secondly, refugees are welcome, but they are also required. there is no right to choose a member state in the european union where one is going. there is the duty to register, there is the duty to integrate into our social order. we must also make this clear to the people who come to us. and third, the state must enforce justice. i am therefore grateful to you, mr president-in-office, for your comments. the border security, the security of the external borders, the fact that europe controls at the border who comes to this continent and who is also turned away, must be carried out, including technical measures. the state must enforce the law and must also be able to set quotas and provide the necessary conditions. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. our message as the epp is: stop producing new ideas and put them into practice!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. so we're supposed to talk about success. i'll take that. but if we look at the 160,000 refugees who have been resettled, of which 8,000 are still missing, and now a little more money for unhcr, after unhcr has been asking for more money for years, then it becomes clear that these successes are very, very small and unfortunately only piecemeal. where is the council's decision to finally allow legal access for refugees so that we do not leave them to the smugglers? where is the decision to make a deep reform of dublin, and not just a little patchwork on the old system? instead, the member states seem determined to leave the problem to other states, other countries, other people. and that is the main problem, that we are entering into a very, very dangerous pact with turkey. the deal seems to be that erdoğan should continue to take care of the refugees, to stop them, and in return he will not get any criticism on the kurdish issue, on freedom of the press and other issues. this, mr tusk, is not the europe we can be proud of.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a wave of migration is sweeping europe. according to newspaper reports, germany alone is expecting 1.5 million migrants this year. this number shatters all previous estimates and shows that the situation is completely out of control. at the meeting of the interior ministers and heads of state a week and a half ago, a quota of 160 000 people for the whole of europe was still being negotiated. what numbers are we talking about next week or next month? mrs merkel's 'we can do it' shows the german chancellor's complete lack of reality. no, the municipalities can't do that. the administrations are collapsing under the weight of the work, the volunteers are running out of options, and the german culture of welcoming seems to be running out of colourful balloons. the borders must be closed and the signals to migrants must be clear that europe cannot take in everyone. already today, most of the refugee camps in the region are run by unhcr. i think it is very sensible that the funds are being increased here. this must be clear to all eu politicians that refugees are safe there and do not have a right to continue their journey to europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. you say we should be grateful to mrs merkel. but perhaps mrs merkel should have discussed this with her people: she never asked germany whether the germans supported her invitation. and i think that's something that simply needs to be treated.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the causes of the refugee flows affecting the european union lie in the terrible conflicts in syria and iraq and in the crises that have been going on for a very long time in afghanistan and the horn of africa. the decisions taken by the heads of state or government at their informal meeting on 23 september confirm the european union's strong commitment to the crisis, both internally and externally, and to the humanitarian dimension. in very concrete terms, we are now freeing up the resources needed to be able to refinance humanitarian organizations active on the ground, such as the high commissioner for refugees and the world food programme, to better meet the needs of refugees close to their place of origin, in turkey, jordan, lebanon and iraq. in syria, we remain the largest donor to the country's endless war. we are committed to strengthening the main trust funds to launch concrete projects. this allows us to help refugees in critical areas, such as education and youth employment. i am thinking of course of the madad fund which was suffering from considerable under-funding and the emergency fund for africa. in both cases, this is in response to a joint request from the european parliament and the heads of state or government. at internal level, the council, aware of the scale of the crisis and the urgency of responding effectively and swiftly to the humanitarian situation of refugees, has done its utmost to treat this issue as a matter of the highest priority. for this reason, two extraordinary meetings of the justice and home affairs council were convened on 14 and 22 september 2015, in addition to the meetings already scheduled by the presidency, in order to follow up on the guidelines given by the european council at its meetings in april and june, the european agenda on migration presented by the commission in may and the additional package of measures submitted by the commission on 9 september. as minister for labour and employment, i organized, not later than yesterday, in the framework of the ministerial lunch, an exchange on the support that the european union and the commission can give to the states which are currently hosting the largest number of refugees, to facilitate their integration, to facilitate their access to the labour market, to support language courses, the assessment of their professional qualifications, the schooling of children, etc. commissioner thyssen has given us a number of thoughts on the use of funds, including from the european social fund, to intervene at this level. the presidency intends to continue this reflection, also in the framework of the epsco council, in order to implement an approach in a coherent and solidary manner in the countries which are hosting the largest numbers of refugees. all these efforts have made it possible and must make it possible to achieve important and significant results in the shortest possible time, in particular the adoption on 14 september of a council decision establishing provisional measures in the field of international protection for the benefit of italy and greece, which will allow the relocation of a first contingent of 40 000 refugees. at its meeting on 22 september the council also adopted a second decision for the relocation of 120 000 persons in need of international protection from italy and greece or any other member state which might need it. i am pleased to note that the first hotspots are already operational and i understand that more hotspots will be operational soon. the roadmaps were submitted by italy and greece and have already been presented at the expert forum organised by the commission in collaboration with easo and at the meeting of the strategic committee on immigration, borders and asylum on 5 october. the practical aspects of the implementation of relocation mechanisms were discussed in detail at these meetings. the council welcomes the excellent cooperation with parliament in the examination of these decisions and the responsiveness shown by parliament. this demonstrates the common will to achieve concrete results in providing refugees with the protection and assistance to which they are entitled and member states, especially those most at risk, with the assistance and assistance they require. we also support humanitarian aid to refugees trying to find refuge in the european union when they cross the southern mediterranean, particularly from libya. in this context, i would like to stress that we are counting on very concrete results with our partners at the valletta summit, whether on the root causes of migration, on refugee protection issues, on the fight against human trafficking or on cooperation on return and readmission. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, as the presidency we are actively engaged in mobilising member states and our key partners to achieve our objective of doubling the contribution from the union budget and reaching an additional €1 billion to support the humanitarian organisations involved in this crisis. recently, the netherlands and belgium announced additional contributions of eur 48.5 million and eur 30 million respectively. the united kingdom announced an additional £100 million and france and germany each announced an additional €100 million. these efforts, which put the european union at the forefront, must also be accompanied by the support of the entire international community. in this regard, we welcome the fact that germany, as g7 chair, has just organised an outreach event on the sidelines of the un general assembly ministerial week, which has resulted in commitments of over eur 1.8 billion. as you know, the commission has already put forward proposals for budgetary adjustment, and we, as the presidency, are determined to support this approach in the council. we will of course need the active support of the european parliament for the rapid implementation of the decisions taken and the necessary budgetary adjustments. i'm sure we can count on you in this regard.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, today we are all put to the test. we are faced with what is arguably the biggest challenge to europe in a generation. what is being put to the test is our capacity to handle a huge humanitarian crisis. what is being put to the test is our capacity to understand that there will be solutions only at a european level. what is being put to the test is the very fabric of our european union. what is being put to the test is actually the fundamental values we share, and much that was said this morning testifies to this. i have to note that when people try to argue that those arriving in europe today are, in the majority, people seeking a better future, not refugees – which is completely unfounded, there are no scientific data – and people say this in this house, i draw some hope from this because they do not want to be seen not to be doing something for real refugees. my hope is that once those in this house who currently reject everything we do understand that we are actually dealing with a majority of real refugees, they will see the fallacy of their ways and come to the conclusion that there are only european solutions here. there is no need to hide from that fact. i say this also: (interjection from the floor: ‘go to the camps and talk to them’) it is being said here – because this is apparently the way people who disagree with you think they can make a point – it is being said behind me here ‘go and talk to them in the camps’. well, that is exactly what i did. that is exactly what i did, but apparently you only hear what you want to hear when you talk in the camps. i know that, in this day and age, fear is an important factor in european society. many european citizens are afraid, and you know what fear has as a characteristic: when you are afraid you go and look for proof that your fear is justified and you are not open to proof that your fear is unjustified. responsible politics in this situation is not to cater to fear, not to create stereotypes, not to put people in groups, but to come up with solutions to a problem instead of just increasing people’s fears in the hope that it will provide you with more votes at the next election. this is also the time when politicians across europe will be challenged on whether their integrity still prevails or whether they go for the easy solution of catering to fears in the hope of then gaining political position. i hope we will all be responsible in this phase. the european council was responsible last week, by paving the way for decisions that can now be implemented. let me briefly go through them. they decided last week to strengthen external borders and increase the financial and human resources for our agencies, frontex, the european asylum support office (easo) and europol, and to increase funding for the eu home affairs funding programmes, with eur 100 million for emergency assistance to the most affected eu member states. this is in addition to the eur 73 million already exhausted. much of this funding is going to address the immediate humanitarian needs – to help member states provide the necessary shelter, health, welfare and other specific basic needs of new arrivals. we speeded up the preparation of the western balkan conference next thursday. we speeded up the roll-out of support teams in the hotspots in the most affected member states, to identify, register and fingerprint migrants. this is essential to make sure we do indeed distinguish between those who have the right to asylum and those who do not. it was also decided to uphold, apply and implement the existing dublin rules and the schengen acquis; to match the mobilised eu budget contributions with member state contributions, including notably eur 1 billion for the unhcr, the world food programme and other agencies to respond to the urgent needs of displaced syrian refugees in the region; to assist turkey, lebanon and jordan in dealing with the refugee crisis through the help of the trust fund for syria; to increase the funding of the emergency trust fund for africa; and to speed up preparations for the valetta summit on 11—12 november. these are important decisions. let us implement them. the issue here is not that we do not know what to do; the issue is that, as in other areas, we lack self-confidence. we can handle this – i agree with chancellor merkel: ‘wir schaffen das’ – i have no doubts. we need to address the issue of what i would call also in this area ‘moral hazard’. member states need to be able to trust that other member states will do their part. this is the core issue here, that so-called frontline member states will do their part in making sure that our external borders are better controlled and that people who arrive are immediately fingerprinted, and that those member states who are not frontline states will do their part in showing their solidarity with the member states who bear the brunt of the arrivals. there is an issue here of just doing what we agreed, and then the self-confidence in europe will increase, and mutual trust will also increase – and that is what we need between member states. as i said before, winter is coming. i spoke to the high commissioner for refugees, antónio guterres, yesterday and he said clearly that we know how to, and we certainly can, winter-proof the refugee camps, the tents, the reception centres, but we cannot winter-proof masses of people on the move – and moving in an unpredictable and fast manner. you cannot winter-proof movements of people. in geneva yesterday our interlocutors welcomed the latest eu steps to mobilise the budget for these purposes. to name but a few: eur 200 million to the unhcr world food programme and other aid agencies to respond to the urgent needs of displaced persons and refugees in the region; eur 300 million in humanitarian aid next year and, as you know, we asked member states to match this and the heads of state or government agreed to do that. i am looking forward to taking stock of these promises at the next european council and i hope people understand that eur 1 billion of funding is not too much to ask for in humanitarian aid. in this respect, i am again very grateful to this parliament, yet again leading by example and fast-tracking the adoption of the budgetary proposals we made last week. this parliament as an institution has assumed its responsibility in an admirable way. the trust fund for syria, aiming to reach eur 1 billion, was also welcomed by those frontline states that will need to deal with the approaching winter. humanitarian aid is our urgency of today. when it comes to humanitarian aid, it is not enough to find necessary funding. you need to put in place necessary help mechanisms, linking manpower and assets. and those challenges are high on the agenda of my colleagues commissioners avramopoulos, stylianides and hahn, and also commissioner andriukaitis, who is working on the health issues. the civil protection mechanism is ready to be activated. we need to do this quickly. we do not want to waste time. a quantum leap in reception capacities in greece is probably the most urgent priority that we are tackling on a daily basis. president juncker has put in place people to coordinate the national and european technical assistance resources being mobilised to help greece. without reception capacity nothing will work, and we all agree on that. greece will have a separate programme with unhcr on this. this needs to be finalised in the coming weeks. greece needs to return to the dublin system, and i have to say that i salute the greek government for committing to returning to the dublin system. you will not hear me saying that all is ready for winter but this commission has identified and proposed all the operational and budgetary measures that are needed internally within the eu and outside our borders. with regard to turkey, the president has said more than enough: we will continue working on this, and you will also be informed this afternoon about exactly what we will be doing in the next couple of weeks. i think you will agree with me that, while working on the humanitarian situation and sharing the burden with the most affected countries, we should also not neglect the wider issue in relation to managing the situation and the root causes of the situation. the valletta summit will be important – however, i will limit myself to referring to what president juncker has said about that. refugees, on the run from war and persecution, willing to risk everything for even the chance of a decent life, will continue to flee. they simply have no other option. and we have no other option but to provide a safe haven for them, to protect them and to treat them properly, here in the european union, as well as in other countries where they arrive. so it is time to rebuild our self-confidence and our mutual confidence in our ability to deal with this most pressing humanitarian issue effectively, and together wir schaffen das!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not we need humanitarian aid these days not only in our own member states but also on the way to us, so to speak, in the balkans, in turkey and, of course, in the crisis region itself. i think we owe a debt of gratitude to the volunteers and full-time helpers who are working to the limit with great dedication everywhere, for example in the camps in and around syria, in serbia or at munich's main railway station. of course, the whole thing has to be financed. and it is good that the council has decided to do what we want to do together on increases. but where would we be today, or what might have been left out, if the member states had fulfilled the commitments they made long ago? where is the 0.7% for development cooperation, for example? the key now is to show speed, finally pay and act quickly. the refugees, who have borne much suffering and many burdens, should be worth our effort.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i am pleased that the member states, together with the commission, are finally taking concrete steps. what is particularly important to me is that the talks we are holding - to provide one billion for the madad fund, the emergency fund, to increase aid to turkey - are actually followed by concrete steps, that there is a guarantee that the funds will actually be increased and that the corresponding payments will actually be made, because the previous rates of payment to the world food programme have been criminally neglected both by the eu and by the member states. secondly, it is indeed a very important matter that we also tackle the causes of the war and that this is not left to someone who has not made a name for himself in this world in recent times in ukraine for dealing very peacefully with his neighbours. i have just learned that mrs sargentini has tried to attack the s&d. it was the epp and the s&d who did not think that the path of the greens, the gue and part of alde made sense towards hungary, because we are seeing the same steps in the czech republic. we have seen similar moves in slovakia. this means that it is necessary and sensible to do what commission president timmermans has said: to take concrete steps with these countries to deal with refugees differently and to organise border crossings in a more sensible way, in accordance with european law.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is about the humanitarian situation of refugees, and i shall start with the balkans. we have to be very careful not to let the european parliament get involved in the political and economic affairs of the region. the camps in lebanon and jordan are also in an unbearable situation: there is no education for the children, and even the food supply is inadequate, partly because our member states have not provided sufficient funds. syrian refugees in turkey: they can't apply for asylum, they can't work, they can't get social support. under such conditions, they cannot remain in this turkey. that has to change. what about the european union? people are being pushed back by force or even shot at at the borders. the situation in italy and greece is intolerable. but let 's face it . for too long too many countries have looked the other way: it is none of our business, let those on the external borders see how they get along. now we are seeing a lot of purely national responses, and often it's not about protecting people, but in many variable forms about the same issue: containment. the european union as a whole is not overwhelmed by these issues. but the council is obviously overwhelmed. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is now almost midnight and we must now mobilise all the resources - financial and organisational, at european level and on the part of the member states - for registration, reception, distribution, integration, tackling the causes of displacement and aid to third countries. the refugees, our citizens, europe finally need a european council!
mr president, mr vice-president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the member states and the european union have made some serious mistakes in recent years. but that's not gonna help us now. we must now solve a problem that many of us have not recognised, both in terms of the capacity of the member states of the european union and in terms of the right to asylum. the right to asylum is a fundamental right, and there is no upper limit. we have all fulfilled the geneva convention here, and it is also in most of our constitutions. but at the same time, we have to make sure that people who come are treated decently, that procedures are done quickly, that people are not only treated decently, but that it is also made clear that those who do not belong here must be sent back quickly. that is why i am grateful to the commission for pointing out to my country that it is not being deported quickly enough and that we must put things right at this point. but i think the key point is that we have to deal with the causes. the citizens will not accept it if we only talk about the symptoms, where we are making progress now in solving things - including through the commission's action plan, including through the talks yesterday with turkey. but we must make it clear that the proxy war in syria and iraq will not end unless we finally get the big players, the americans and the russians, to the table. we have many countries bombing there now, but everyone bombs another in syria. if we do not succeed in doing this and at the same time take the initiative to finally pursue an inclusive policy, if we do not make a new policy for africa, including a new trade policy, and also see climate protection and refugees together, if we do not even present this as a comprehensive concept to the european citizens, then these citizens will drive us all out of the way. that is why we must go beyond what we are doing now and also take this big leap and communicate it to the public.
in writing.– the flow of refugees and migrants has reached an unprecedented scale. this international crisis needs an international response. in order to cope with the current situation, the european union needs to support syria and its direct neighbours as well as the western balkans. i welcome that already eur 4 billion in eu and member states funding have been spent to help syria and its neighbours. turkey is one of the key countries in the region. the european union’s support for turkey, a country that has already received 2 million refugees, needs to be stepped up. most refugees enter the european union via the western balkan route. therefore, countries like serbia are not part of the problem, but part of the solution. commissioner johannes hahn is right when he states that the western balkans must ‘not become a parking lot’ for stranded refugees. i welcome that the european commission has increased the migration-related assistance for serbia and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. stability in the western balkans is a prerequisite for dealing with the flow of refugees and can just be safeguarded by a clear european perspective for all the countries in the region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the ilo convention on forced or compulsory labour: judicial cooperation in criminal matters because i believe that, in the spirit of subsidiarity, it is up to the member states to sign the convention. secondly, i welcome the standards set by the ilo.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the ilo convention on forced labour. human rights must be protected throughout europe and across european borders. we must create working conditions that do not lead to forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the eu parliament resolution on the draft council decision authorising member states to ratify the protocol of 2014 to the international labour organisation convention on forced or compulsory labour, 1930, as regards articles 1 to 4 of the protocol, with regard to matters relating to judicial cooperation in criminal matters, in the interest of the european union. the protocol creates legal obligations for the ratifying states and can only be ratified by states which have also ratified the convention. according to the case law of the court of justice of the european union, member states cannot decide to ratify the protocol outside the framework of the eu institutions, as parts of it fall within the competence of the eu. the protocol aims to close implementation gaps and to make progress in preventing trafficking in human beings for the purpose of labour exploitation and in protecting and compensating victims of forced labour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the draft council implementing decision on control measures for 4-methylamphetamine, as i consider it very important to have uniform, appropriate, technically applicable rules in this context.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction of control measures for 4-methylamphetamine. the number of poisonings and deaths caused by this dangerous drug is enormous. we must take measures to prevent the spread of such psychoactive substances, which are often not considered illegal.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the eu parliament resolution on the draft council implementing decision on control measures for 4-methylamphetamine. i do not see the need to adopt control measures for psychoactive substances at european level. the commission has therefore rightly agreed to derogations. the principle of subsidiarity is flagrantly violated by a european regulation of these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is very important to have uniform, appropriate and technically applicable rules in this context.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction of control measures for 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole. the number of poisonings and deaths caused by this dangerous drug is enormous. we must take measures to prevent the spread of such psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the european parliament resolution on the draft council implementing decision on control measures for 5-[2-aminopropyl]indole. i do not see the need to adopt control measures for psychoactive substances at european level. the commission has therefore rightly agreed to derogations. the principle of subsidiarity is flagrantly violated by a european regulation of these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is very important to have uniform, appropriate and technically applicable rules in this context.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction of control measures for 25i-nbome, ah-7921, mdpv and methoxetamine. the number of poisonings and deaths caused by these dangerous drugs is enormous. we must take measures to prevent the spread of such psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the european parliament resolution on the draft council implementing decision on control measures for 4-iodine-2,5-dimethoxy-n-(2-methoxybenzyl) phenethylamine (25i-nbome), 3,4-dichloro-n-[[1-[[dimethylamino) cyclohexyl]methyl]benzamide (ah-7921), 3,4-methylendioxypyronoval (mdpv) and 2-[[3-methoxyphenyl) 2-[[ethylamino) cyclohexanone (methoxetamin). i do not see the need to adopt control measures for psychoactive substances at european level. the commission has therefore rightly agreed to derogations. the principle of subsidiarity is flagrantly violated by a european regulation of these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is very important to have uniform, appropriate and technically applicable rules in this context.
in writing. ‒ i support the introduction of control measures for 4,4-dmar and mt-45. the number of poisonings and deaths caused by these dangerous drugs is enormous. we must take measures to prevent the spread of such psychoactive substances.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the european parliament resolution on the draft council implementing decision on control measures for 4-methyl-5- (((4-methylphenyl) -4,5-dihydrooxazol-2-amine (4,4'-dmar) and 1-cyclohexyl-4- ((1,2-diphenylethyl) piperazine (mt-45). i do not see the need to adopt control measures for psychoactive substances at european level. the commission has therefore rightly agreed to derogations. the principle of subsidiarity is flagrantly violated by a european regulation of these matters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund: disasters in bulgaria and greece 2015 because i see european solidarity in times of crisis as a core element of our european union. this is true of the disasters in bulgaria and greece, but it is also true of the current refugee policy.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the mobilisation of the solidarity fund by bulgaria and greece. the countries affected by natural disasters and bad weather need the european solidarity of the other member states.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal of 17 july 2015 provides for facilitations for greece in the financing of projects from the five european structural and investment funds. the commission proposal's critical points include control over the proper use of funds, budgetary neutrality, the lack of administrative capacity of greek authorities to implement programmes and equal treatment with other eu countries. i reject the commission's proposal because neither the third aid package of 86 billion euros agreed at the euro summit on 12 july 2015 nor this additional package of measures is the right medicine for greece. we must face the fact that greece is completely uncompetitive. the commission has already taken steps to reduce the debt burden in the context of economically sound accounting, but greece will only recover when it leaves the monetary union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the eu can help in the transition process and show its solidarity. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. the commission has also proposed to amend the list of countries with a high level of environmental protection. the fund is designed to enable the european union to respond quickly, effectively and flexibly to emergencies and to show solidarity with the population in regions affected by disasters. bulgaria has submitted one application for the fund because of severe winter weather conditions, and greece has submitted two applications for the fund because of flooding. all applications are eligible for aid. the fund should therefore be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of a total of eur 16 274 765 for the applications submitted by bulgaria and greece. in order to minimise the time needed for mobilisation of the fund, this decision should apply from the date of its adoption. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ we do support the basic thrust of the commission's proposal to mobilise investment funds for greece. however, the reduction of the co-financing rate from 5% to 0% risks creating false incentives which will ultimately lead to bad investments. we reject this and have therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. the commission has also proposed to amend the list of countries with a high level of environmental protection. the fund is designed to enable the european union to respond quickly, effectively and flexibly to emergencies and to show solidarity with the population in regions affected by disasters. bulgaria has submitted one application for the fund because of severe winter weather conditions, and greece has submitted two applications for the fund because of flooding. all applications are eligible for aid. the fund should therefore be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of a total of eur 16 274 765 for the applications submitted by bulgaria and greece. in order to minimise the time needed for mobilisation of the fund, this decision should apply from the date of its adoption. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report contains a proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, in accordance with point 11 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management. the commission has also proposed to amend the list of countries with a high level of environmental protection. the fund is designed to enable the european union to respond quickly, effectively and flexibly to emergencies and to show solidarity with the population in regions affected by disasters. bulgaria has submitted one application for the fund because of severe winter weather conditions, and greece has submitted two applications for the fund because of flooding. all applications are eligible for aid. the fund should therefore be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution of a total of eur 16 274 765 for the applications submitted by bulgaria and greece. in order to minimise the time needed for mobilisation of the fund, this decision should apply from the date of its adoption. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i agree to the disbursement of funds from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to greece and bulgaria. natural disasters are random. the eusf was set up to provide solidarity assistance in the event of major natural disasters within the european framework. it is one of the few instruments which is meaningfully located at a supranational level. the eu is thus authorising eur 16.2 million to provide aid for the natural disasters in greece and bulgaria in winter 2015. in greece, five regions were affected by severe flooding, while in bulgaria severe winter weather caused considerable damage. the funds eur 9.9 million for greece and eur 6.3 million for bulgaria are intended to cover part of the costs of emergency aid and reconstruction measures following these natural disasters. the main purpose of the appropriations will be to restore vital infrastructure and services, to reimburse the costs of emergency and rescue operations and to cover part of the costs of clean-up in the affected regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the possible extension of the protection of geographical indications of the european union to non-agricultural products, as the eu seals have proven their worth in the food sector and protect regional smes in particular. i also know from my home region of mecklenburg-western pomerania that there are many products other than food that deserve this protection.
in writing. ‒ eu-wide protection of non-agricultural origin data does not only benefit businesses at local level. it shall also provide consumers with reasonable assurances that the product actually originates from the declared place of origin and has certain quality characteristics. it is estimated that the international demand for non-agricultural products can be increased by up to 25% by comprehensive protection of geographical indications of origin. we must fight counterfeiting and other unfair practices. i therefore voted for a single european legislation on tuesday.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to centralize control and, in my view, to restrict trade in similar products, which is harmful to competition. the national states or regional actors are best placed to determine their own needs. in addition, competition must be protected and goods which are based on a protected product and clearly marked as similar must not be excluded from competition. that is why i cannot agree.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to centralize control and, in my view, to restrict trade in similar products, which is harmful to competition. the national states or regional actors are best placed to determine their own needs. in addition, competition must be protected and goods which are based on a protected product and clearly marked as similar must not be excluded from competition. that is why i cannot agree.
in writing. ‒ this report is intended to centralize control and, in my view, to restrict trade in similar products, which is harmful to competition. the national states or regional actors are best placed to determine their own needs. in addition, competition must be protected and goods which are based on a protected product and clearly marked as similar must not be excluded from competition. that is why i cannot agree.
in writing. ‒ as ecr's shadow rapporteur on the imco committee, i had two objectives. firstly, i have agreed to the establishment of a single european legal framework to put an end to the proliferation of national regulations and to achieve european legal certainty. at the same time, i have resisted the centralisation of the control bodies because i believe that the control needs should be determined at national level and that the expenditure on control should also remain at national level. the national states or regional actors are best placed to determine their own needs. secondly, i have tried to protect competition and have suggested that goods which are based on a protected product and clearly marked as similar should not be excluded from competition. i have already failed to make my case in the imco committee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i have already rejected the imco opinion for this reason and i now reject the juri proposal, which has not changed these objectives.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed to extending the eu rules on the indication of the origin of agricultural products, which have so far been of limited use, to other sectors. the current rules on agricultural products are not fair and allow for lübeck marzipan not to come from lübeck and black forest ham not to come from the black forest. it is therefore a legalized consumer deception. at the same time, it opens up a playing field for brand lawyers for both pointless and lucrative lawsuits. bad rules must be abolished. to extend it is a great mistake.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report because i am not convinced that suspending co-financing is the right way forward for greece. in my experience, projects with 100% grant funding and no own funds do not achieve the desired objective. a small financial contribution of one's own, like a 'minimum correction', ensures that the necessary responsibility for the grants is met. we need this in a case like greece, where there are currently no structures that are sufficiently functional to ensure that the money goes where it is needed!
in writing. ‒ today i voted against the line of my group for the report on general provisions on the european structural and investment funds: specific measures for greece, because i am genuinely concerned about helping the crisis-stricken country but about helping people, families and communities. no help that only saves banks and bankers. the money comes through the structural funds and can make investments possible across the board. it helps greece, it helps its citizens.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree to the report in this form. greece deserves the help of europe. however, a basic condition is that the funds paid out are also used efficiently in greece.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal of 17 july 2015 provides for facilitations for greece in the financing of projects from the five european structural and investment funds. the measures are as follows: 1) final payments for programmes under the 2007-13 financial framework may be made early, even without the necessary final documentation. 2) the greek side is not obliged to co-finance programmes under the 2007-13 financial framework. 3) an advance of up to eur 2 billion will be granted for programmes under the current financial framework. the commission proposal's critical points include control over the proper use of funds, budgetary neutrality, the lack of administrative capacity of greek authorities to implement programmes and equal treatment with other eu countries. i reject the commission's proposal because neither the third aid package of 86 billion euros agreed at the euro summit on 12 july 2015 nor this additional package of measures is the right medicine for greece. we must face the fact that greece is completely uncompetitive. the commission has already taken steps to reduce the debt burden in the context of economically sound accounting, but greece will only recover when it leaves the monetary union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the eu can help in the transition process and show its solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal of 17 july 2015 provides for facilitations for greece in the financing of projects from the five european structural and investment funds. the measures are as follows: 1) final payments for programmes under the 2007-13 financial framework may be made early, even without the necessary final documentation. 2) the greek side is not obliged to co-finance programmes under the 2007-13 financial framework. 3) an advance of up to eur 2 billion will be granted for programmes under the current financial framework. the commission proposal's critical points include control over the proper use of funds, budgetary neutrality, the lack of administrative capacity of greek authorities to implement programmes and equal treatment with other eu countries. i reject the commission's proposal because neither the third aid package of 86 billion euros agreed at the euro summit on 12 july 2015 nor this additional package of measures is the right medicine for greece. we must face the fact that greece is completely uncompetitive. the commission has already taken steps to reduce the debt burden in the context of economically sound accounting, but greece will only recover when it leaves the monetary union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the eu can help in the transition process and show its solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the fdp members abstained in the final vote. we do support the basic idea of the commission's proposal to mobilise investment funds for greece. however, the reduction of the co-financing rate from 5% to 0% carries a great risk of creating false incentives which may ultimately lead to bad investments. we reject this.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal of 17 july 2015 provides for facilitations for greece in the financing of projects from the five european structural and investment funds. the measures are as follows: 1) final payments for programmes under the 2007-13 financial framework may be made early, even without the necessary final documentation. 2) the greek side is not obliged to co-finance programmes under the 2007-13 financial framework. 3) an advance of up to eur 2 billion will be granted for programmes under the current financial framework. the commission proposal's critical points include control over the proper use of funds, budgetary neutrality, the lack of administrative capacity of greek authorities to implement programmes and equal treatment with other eu countries. i reject the commission's proposal because neither the third aid package of 86 billion euros agreed at the euro summit on 12 july 2015 nor this additional package of measures is the right medicine for greece. we must face the fact that greece is completely uncompetitive. the commission has already taken steps to reduce the debt burden in the context of economically sound accounting, but greece will only recover when it leaves the monetary union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the eu can help in the transition process and show its solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the fdp members abstained in the final vote. we do support the basic idea of the commission's proposal to mobilise investment funds for greece. however, the reduction of the co-financing rate from 5% to 0% carries a great risk of creating false incentives which may ultimately lead to bad investments. we reject this.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal of 17 july 2015 provides for facilitations for greece in the financing of projects from the five european structural and investment funds. the measures are as follows: 1) final payments for programmes under the 2007-13 financial framework may be made early, even without the necessary final documentation. 2) the greek side is not obliged to co-finance programmes under the 2007-13 financial framework. 3) an advance of up to eur 2 billion will be granted for programmes under the current financial framework. the commission proposal's critical points include control over the proper use of funds, budgetary neutrality, the lack of administrative capacity of greek authorities to implement programmes and equal treatment with other eu countries. i reject the commission's proposal because neither the third aid package of 86 billion euros agreed at the euro summit on 12 july 2015 nor this additional package of measures is the right medicine for greece. we must face the fact that greece is completely uncompetitive. the commission has already taken steps to reduce the debt burden in the context of economically sound accounting, but greece will only recover when it leaves the monetary union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information it receives. the eu can help in the transition process and show its solidarity.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the special rules for the disbursement of eu funds to greece. the european parliament has already said that it will not accept the amendments. this is a side-effect of the euro-bailout to supplement the official rescue package. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. the money is also to be paid out in 2015 and 2016. this is the greatest possible irresponsibility. what is supposed to be an investment package to "boost" the greek economy, as so often attempted, will prove to be a gigantic waste. greece will build escalators into nothing, railway stations without rails and power lines without customers. and you can't even blame him for that. i refuse to be a deputy to the euro-saviours and i am firmly against this nonsense. sooner or later, it's going to come out. the problem with bailing out greece is that the euro savers will eventually run out of other people's money.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: egf/2015/002 de/adam opel, because i know the fate of many workers in bochum and i am convinced that the payments from this fund can help facilitate personal and regional structural change. this eu money is also being used by families in bochum.
in writing. ‒ i have decided to mobilise the egf, in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 25 of regulation (eu) no 1306/2013, in respect of the application egf/2015/002/de/adam opel. in times of increasing globalisation and a weakening global economy, it is important that european companies remain competitive in the future. workers who have lost their jobs as a result of this adjustment deserve support to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) should be used to provide ongoing training and retraining for former opel employees to help them reintegrate into the labour market and develop new skills and competences. overall, the aim is to respond better to changes due to globalisation, including the outflow of large companies abroad. we want to support growth and employment, of course. however, i am convinced that the fund and the investment of the funds in former opel employees are not the right political instrument for this. we should also put the emphasis on employee initiative in large companies and focus on the competitiveness and productivity of the european economy. that is why i voted against it. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) should be used to provide ongoing training and retraining for former opel employees to help them reintegrate into the labour market and develop new skills and competences. overall, the aim is to respond better to changes due to globalisation, including the outflow of large companies abroad. we want to support growth and employment, of course. however, i am convinced that the fund and the investment of the funds in former opel employees are not the right political instrument for this. we should also put the emphasis on employee initiative in large companies and focus on the competitiveness and productivity of the european economy. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) should be used to provide ongoing training and retraining for former opel employees to help them reintegrate into the labour market and develop new skills and competences. overall, the aim is to respond better to changes due to globalisation, including the outflow of large companies abroad. we want to support growth and employment, of course. however, i am convinced that the fund and the investment of the funds in former opel employees are not the right political instrument for this. we should also put the emphasis on employee initiative in large companies and focus on the competitiveness and productivity of the european economy. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) should be used to provide ongoing training and retraining for former opel employees to help them reintegrate into the labour market and develop new skills and competences. overall, the aim is to respond better to changes due to globalisation, including the outflow of large companies abroad. we want to support growth and employment, of course. however, i am convinced that the fund and the investment of the funds in former opel employees are not the right political instrument for this. we should also put the emphasis on employee initiative in large companies and focus on the competitiveness and productivity of the european economy. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the de/adam opel motion. the 'fund for adaptation to globalisation' is a social policy instrument of the european union. at the request of eu member states, workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the effects of globalisation or the global financial crisis can be assisted in finding a new job. the globalisation fund is providing €7 million. this money helps the workers in their search for new jobs. i welcome the investment in training to help jobseekers find quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ the report proposes that the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) should be used to provide ongoing training and retraining for former opel employees to help them reintegrate into the labour market and develop new skills and competences. overall, the aim is to respond better to changes due to globalisation, including the outflow of large companies abroad. but i believe that such processes are not the responsibility of the eu and must be dealt with at a subsidiary level. that is why i have voted against many other programmes where such programmes were put to the vote. germany is strong enough to cope with these demands on its own, and that is why i am sticking to my previous voting practice.
in writing. ‒ i am voting as my group against any disbursement from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) on principle so against this too. the egf is intended to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the pattern of world trade. the egf shall be managed in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. the fund can cover up to 60% of the cost of projects which can help redundant workers find a new job or start their own business. the egf is only used where more than 500 workers are made redundant by a single undertaking (including suppliers and downstream companies) or where a large number of workers in a single industry are made redundant in one or more neighbouring regions. there is no reason to place these measures at european level. this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: egf/2015/003 be/ford genk, in line with the line of my group. i am very critical of the global fund as a whole. in this case, i am also convinced that the loss of jobs was caused by the wrong economic policy choices made by belgium.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the egf being mobilised in respect of application egf/2015/003/be/ford genk. in times of increasing globalisation and a weakening global economy, it is important that european companies remain competitive in the future. workers who have lost their jobs as a result of this adjustment deserve support to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the be/ford genk motion. the 'fund for adaptation to globalisation' is a social policy instrument of the european union. at the request of eu member states, workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the effects of globalisation or the global financial crisis can be assisted in finding a new job. the global fund will provide €6.3 million in this case. this money will help the 4 500 former ford genk workers to find new jobs. i welcome the investment in training to help jobseekers find quality jobs.
in writing. ‒ i am voting as my group against any disbursement from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) on principle so against this too. the egf is intended to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the pattern of world trade. the egf shall be managed in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. the fund can cover up to 60% of the cost of projects which can help redundant workers find a new job or start their own business. the egf is only used where more than 500 workers are made redundant by a single undertaking (including suppliers and downstream companies) or where a large number of workers in a single industry are made redundant in one or more neighbouring regions. there is no reason to place these measures at european level. this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report in line with my group's line. i am very critical of the global fund as a whole. in this case, i am also convinced that the loss of jobs was caused by italy's economic policy errors.
in writing. ‒ i have given my consent to the egf being mobilised in respect of application egf/2015/004/it/alitalia. in times of increasing globalisation and a weakening global economy, it is important that european companies remain competitive in the future. workers who have lost their jobs as a result of this adjustment deserve support to reintegrate into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the it/alitalia proposal. the 'fund for adaptation to globalisation' is a social policy instrument of the european union. at the request of eu member states, workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the effects of globalisation or the global financial crisis can be assisted in finding a new job. the global fund will provide eur 1.4 million in this case. this money will help the 184 former alitalia workers to find new jobs. i welcome the investment in training to enable jobseekers to find quality jobs again.
in writing. ‒ i am voting as my group against any disbursement from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) on principle so against this too. the egf is intended to help workers who have lost their jobs as a result of changes in the pattern of world trade. the egf shall be managed in accordance with the principle of sound financial management. the fund can cover up to 60% of the cost of projects which can help redundant workers find a new job or start their own business. the egf is only used where more than 500 workers are made redundant by a single undertaking (including suppliers and downstream companies) or where a large number of workers in a single industry are made redundant in one or more neighbouring regions. there is no reason to place these measures at european level. this is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation because, as a development expert and acp coordinator for my group, i am convinced that investment in development policy can only help if it reaches the ground, the rural regions and the people. local authorities as well as local family businesses have a special role to play. i am opposed to the purely budgetary policy that the eu has promoted far too often and for far too long.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation. local authorities are an important part of development cooperation and sustainable development. they are closer to the citizen than other public bodies and are responsible for shaping public opinion.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the ideas expressed here about the role of local authorities in developing countries in development aid. the resolution, which is four pages long, quotes the recent resolutions of parliament, opinions, commission communications, council documents and other evaluation reports on united nations development programmes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it is too late to question the role of local authorities in development cooperation. if all these documents, proposals, decisions and advice had been implemented, we would not be faced today with the unmanageable number of wealthy refugees who are flocking, above all, to germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the committee on transport is also affected by this scandal, because we know that without a change in mobility, climate change will not be stopped. transport is responsible for 24% of emissions, road transport in this sector for 72%. it's bad enough as it is. but since 1990 we have achieved a 32% reduction in industry. in transport, emissions increased by 28%. that means transportation is eating up everything that's been done in other sectors with billions of our taxpayers' money. so, without changing mobility, we're not going to stop climate change. but we must stop it so that our children and their children have a perspective of living on this planet. that is why we decided in the 2011 white paper, by a large majority in this parliament, to reduce conventional propulsion in urban traffic by 50% by 2030 and to eliminate conventional propulsion in cities by 2050. we decided that this would be achieved by improving efficiency, by new engines, by new propellants and by new design methods. we decided that, but not that it would happen through fraud and criminal machinations. we must condemn this in the strongest terms. it wasn't a technological deficit. it was a financial deficit. so volkswagen decided, no, we'd rather cheat than be honest, and then the car would have been a little bit more expensive. the technical inspection came. it was just not used. and that has to change! we also voted and agreed on the european union's transport targets for 2030 and 2050, ambitious targets set by the commission, but we in the committee on transport did not go far enough. that is why we said that we cannot take the second and third steps without the first, and we decided that the transport sector must also reduce its co2 emissions by 20% by 2020 on the basis of 1990. we decided that by a large majority. and now we have a review of the white paper by rapporteur wim van de camp. and he has documented there again, and we have also decided by a large majority that the test cycles must be revised and must correspond to reality. we don't need the best lab values that have nothing to do with reality and the street. we'll have to match that. that is why the commission is also needed. first of all, it also needs to analyse why it has been manipulated since 2008 and why it was not detected earlier. they must analyse what mistakes the commission may have made. what mistakes have the member states made? what mistakes do the governmental authorities make? this too, all this must be investigated. and of course we want absolute enlightenment, both in the automotive industry and elsewhere, because we don't want this to happen again. that is why we need proposals, and we expect them from the commission after you have reviewed all this. what is your proposal for the future, so that such a disaster with criminal machinations is not repeated? because that was a scam on the client. he thinks my car uses four liters, but it's actually six liters. this is also a fraud on the taxpayer, because in many countries the tax on cars is measured by co2 emissions, which we have always supported. but you can't reverse that. and of course, it's a huge environmental damage that we can't afford. we condemn, as a committee, of course, these criminal machinations that have taken place here, and we fear that they will also take place in other sectors. we also do not want to guarantee the use of the loopholes. many so-called legal loopholes have also been used to reduce emissions. the tran committee wants a full investigation and to make sure that this doesn't happen again in the future.
member of the commission.– madam president, honourable members, i am grateful for the opportunity to have this point on the agenda and to explain to you the actions of the commission over the past 10 days, because we face a very difficult case of fraud. let me speak frankly: this is fraud committed by one company and this fraud has put at stake public trust in european cars, and has seriously put at stake the credibility of our legal system and its efficiency in protecting consumers and the environment, which is the backbone of the european union’s actions and regulations. i believe we will be able to overcome it. i thank the european parliament for giving me this opportunity to share information and also – at the very beginning – i want to say that i am ready to continue providing you with every piece of information about my future actions to ensure that such a fraud will not happen again. the commission and member states agreed, at the competitiveness council on thursday 1 october 2015, just last week, to act quickly and to act collectively. this means three things. firstly, investigating and establishing the facts and enforcing the existing rules – which is what all of you are calling for. secondly, accelerating the adoption of the regulatory framework formations. and thirdly, changing the approval and surveillance systems so that this cannot happen again. i will speak about each of these in turn and i want you to know that the commission will play a full role in sorting this out. let me begin with the first point: establishing the facts and enforcing the existing rules. this is the point from where we have to start. we must start by establishing the facts. you ask me how the commission will investigate any potential wrongdoing. the commission does not have the power to carry out our own investigation in the automotive sector. we rely on the authorities of the member states. these institutions are professional. let us not jeopardise what we have built together so far: a widespread feeling of mutual suspicion is not helping coherent and effective european action. in fact, investigations have already been launched in several member states and the commission has encouraged all the others, every member state and every manufacturer, to do the same – i have sent a letter to all of the member states. the commission is providing a platform for the exchange of information between member states, in the sense that we have already convened several meetings of government and type-approval authorities. we have also discussed this matter in detail, as i mentioned before, at the competitiveness council on 1 october 2015. the national authorities are together exchanging information with the commission about this case and the commission is also organising a meeting with the national type-approval authorities that will be held on 15 october 2015. we need, as soon as possible, to have clarification on the extent of the fraud. for instance, the following questions: how many vehicle models are involved; how many vehicles in total; and under which conditions have vehicle sales been banned? and once we have the facts, we must act. as i have stressed several times, we have zero tolerance for fraud. we must send a very clear message today on the enforcement of existing rules, and those rules must be strictly adhered to. here again, national authorities have a very crucial role to play. we need to be clear about what we will do and when we will do it; what actions will be taken to remedy this situation and when they will be carried out. we need to restore consumer confidence as quickly as possible – i think this is where the real damage that has been done – and we need to apply the rules even if that means sanctions. we owe this to europe’s citizens. i have asked member states to work together on this because i think uncoordinated national action will make things even worse. we will only succeed if we act together. on the second point, regarding accelerating the change in the regulatory framework for emissions, the question was whether we noticed that something was wrong. we noticed that the system of testing emissions in laboratories is not the right one, and the commission proposed draft regulations on real-driving emission (rde) testing a few years ago. the first package was voted on in may, but i think we have to accelerate matters. the new legislation will improve the test procedure for directly assessing the regulated emissions of light-duty vehicles under real driving conditions. the new testing procedure will eliminate the possibility of using defeat devices and it will ensure that the regulatory emissions limits are actually met. the second package of the rde procedure, setting out the exact timing and level of what are called conformity factors, is planned to be voted on this year. we will do it. on the third point, improving the approval and surveillance system so this cannot happen again, where should we act at eu level? let me list those areas where action is urgently needed and where full support is essential – including the full support of the european parliament. the existing approval system for motor vehicles in the eu lies with pre-market testing and the approval of vehicles. this is a system that is used almost all over the world, and it has been studied and evaluated in detail for several years. so far, i want to stress ‘so far’, the conclusion of our studies has been that this system has been effective in ensuring safe and environmentally friendly cars on our roads. it has also ensured that the internal market is fully harmonised and that every time a member state authority approves a vehicle type it can be bought and registered in 28 member states. this has obvious advantages for both citizens and industry. our study’s conclusion also indicated that we can improve the system – and this has to be stressed – especially as regards governance and market surveillance. we have therefore been working on a new commission proposal for the last years on the eu type-approval system for motor vehicles. however, in light of the volkswagen problem, and drawing conclusions from what has occurred, we will analyse our proposal again and will suggest further changes that will prevent similar events from happening. i hope to present the proposal to the college of commissioners as soon as possible. it will then be presented to you and to the council, and we expect that our common work will be quick. we expect that the resulting work will contribute to more effective market surveillance, to implementing robust ex-post checks and to improving safeguard measures and recall procedures. let me say it again: european consumers must be reassured that non-confirmed products are not circulated on the eu market. and finally, i have a message to us all. we need to ask ourselves what lesson we can draw from this fraud and this behaviour. we have to remind companies that they should respect the letter and the spirit of the law, because socially and environmentally responsible companies have been one of europe’s biggest assets. i hope that we can work together for this to continue to be the truth.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's true that volkswagen has manipulated the emissions figures. but it is wrong, as has been claimed several times today, to say that this has something to do with the normal difference between test operation and operation in road traffic. it is true that we are dealing with the biggest industrial scandal in post-war german history. it is wrong to present this as typical of the german automobile industry. because volkswagen - and this is what i value most - is a special case. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to take any further action to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i remember that the leaders of the unions and the workers' councils were bought at the expense of the company with absurd privileges and visits to brothels. even without this scandal, volkswagen was hardly competitive because of excessive personnel costs and restructuring that was long overdue. and now volkswagen is a reorganization case. i am also of the opinion that the single euro is only a source of discord and division in europe and must therefore be abolished.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. as environmental, consumer and health policy makers in this house, we have become accustomed over the almost ten years we have been making the automotive regulations for clean air or climate protection or fuel efficiency to the fact that the representatives of the automotive industry actually always see all our rules as an attack on their corporate strategies. what i didn't expect, despite all the negative experiences with lobbyists from all the car companies - and that was the only surprise in the last few weeks - was that a company as big and as powerful as vw, when it can't stop an ambitious test cycle, then with criminal energy systematically cheats the authorities for years. that's something that i still can't really fathom to this day. i've kind of gotten used to this old idea that you see environmental policy as a liability. but this willingness to cheat and commit crime - i cannot understand it. what led to this? i would also like to criticise the commission directly, but also my german government. i know of no other area of regulation in which the federal government has so systematically tried to protect the interests of german corporations, at least against regulation from brussels. again and again the chancellor of the autonomous communities is saying that not only do we have a climate chancellor in germany, but we also have a chancellor of the autonomous communities. she is saying that we have lower limits, that we have not yet had the test cycle that we have long discussed. and i think that kind of aggressive protection also creates a kind of hubris in companies, which is part of it, that you can do things that are criminal, which is what vw has now admitted. what are we going to do? i think the commission should admit that this has not come out of the blue as it is being portrayed. the federal government, like the european commission, has been repeatedly informed that the test cycle is not working. and this is not just true of the euro-diesel standards, but also of fuel efficiency standards or climate protection standards. so, do not be naive, but check the facts. i think what you have presented today is far from what is necessary. we are putting jobs in europe at risk by weak action and weak guidelines. it is not environmental legislation that is endangering industry, but the protection of industry at the wrong level. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the kind of criminal energy that vw has put into its fake software, i can't see it for other companies at the moment, but i don't know any car company that doesn't have a problem with test cycles. i don't know of any company that doesn't need to be audited. that is why it is so important that we talk about a european investigation and that we talk about how we can give ourselves european instruments so that we can be as good as the epo in dealing with such problems.
i have to say, madam president, mrs bieńkowska, i must say that i am a little surprised at how calmly you have dealt with this scandal and that you have great confidence in the licensing authorities of the individual member states. i must say that this is not how i see competition in europe in the single market. the fact that the lowest standards are given preference - i think we have to go there. we cannot avoid having a european admission procedure with a european institution. that's a conclusion we should draw. we have the opportunity to put this on paper again by means of a resolution at the next plenary session. we know this from the medical field, from medical records. the authorities are also working together there. the european authority, the ema, and on the other hand the american authority. have you been leaked information by the americans? if so, when were they sent to you? when did you become aware of the scandal? or did the newspaper inform you of this? the fact that something is wrong has just been mentioned by mrs harms. we've had environmental groups come in and say, "oh, that's not right. the commission has not investigated this. national authorities such as the german authority have carried out zero tests in real operation. the commission has not yet taken any action to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the internal market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the people in charge at vw wanted to save costs, but they saved at the expense of the environment and health. nitrogen oxides are one of the main causes of ozone formation, exacerbating asthma and many other health problems. the misconduct of some of the people in charge at volkswagen has now caused economic damage that far exceeds the savings that were intended. that should be a lesson to all of us. i feel sorry for those who are now suffering innocently: the employees, the suppliers and many others. those responsible must be held to account with all severity. i cannot understand that the former ceo, mr winterkorn, is still claiming his full pension and that he is still active in the volkswagen holding company. the most important questions for us as the eu are: first, why have our authorities not detected the fraud, when there are eight million tampered vehicles in europe, and only a few hundred thousand in the us? and secondly, what about other manufacturers? some of them are surprisingly calm. commissioner, i would really like to encourage you to put a little more energy into this and not just rely on the national authorities. we're gonna have to get some people out of there, i think. i agree with mrs grossetête that it is not appropriate to demonize diesel at this time. a lot of little people need the diesel because they're going long distances. we have, of course, an economic situation where we cannot get off diesel. that would cost many millions of jobs. but it is also necessary for environmental policy to achieve the medium-term climate goals, and it can be cleaned up. because even vw is complying with euro 6, the stricter standard, but euro 5 they cheated. so it's not because of the strictness of the standard, but because they have to stop cheating. we should also think about the communes. we are imposing air quality plans on the municipalities, but at the same time we have to accept... (the president cut the speaker off)
i have to say, madam president, we are dealing with a whole series of scandals here. of course, fraud is a scandal, and it definitely needs to be cleared up and regulated. it is also a scandal that the controls in the european union have failed completely and we have had to use the united states to clarify what is happening here. the third scandal, which i cannot yet define, is it a scandal that the epo did not inform the european commission, or is it a scandal that the european commission was informed and then remained silent? that's a question we have yet to settle. i really need information from our commissioner on these matters. the other point we have to address is that yes, we have to stop lab tests and start doing real tests that are really meaningful. but conventional testing -- including on the road -- will never be enough, because in the digitized world we live in today, with the software that can be built in, it's not enough to just test on the road, we're going to have to test all these different software. i am very interested, commissioner, in what you are going to do about this. that was not mentioned in your remarks earlier. we will have to think about how these tests can be carried out.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: and it is true that the nox levels have been exceeded by up to forty times. in this case i can only say, mr eickhout has already said, that we are allowed 80 milligrams per kilometre, in the united states only 31 milligrams, and that has just been exceeded several times. that's something that doesn't work at all. that's why we have to do something. now the question is, what do we do? first of all, we must ensure that there is a full and transparent investigation and that we find out who is really responsible for this. you're in it now; you just have to see it. the second is the tests. the fact is that we know, we've known for a long time, that the lab tests we have at the moment to certify these guys don't really reflect the values that you actually have in serious driving. that is why we have been calling for these tests under real driving conditions for some time in parliament. you need a mobile pendant to measure that. it's all possible. we need this as soon as possible. i agree with all my colleagues. but what really scares me is the story that you have now with this scam. it was really back in 2014 that students, as part of their university studies, realized that there was a discrepancy between what was on it and what was coming out. you could say that. and then there was a vw recall of 500,000 cars in the united states. so, i have to say, i didn't notice anything here at the time, and that's something that can scare you, too, that we didn't know. then the same cars were tested again later, and then you really saw how much manipulation was going on. the software has been reworked before and obviously not realistically and not intentionally so that there are really reasonable values. the question now is: what is the control of the executive board by the supervisory board, and how can we ensure that control in the eu?
i have to say, madam president, the vw emissions scandal is not just a failure of individuals - this must be said clearly - but an economic fraud comparable to the major banking scandals of recent years. this fraud is ultimately affecting the backbone of the economy not only in germany but in other european countries: suppliers, consumers in the whole world. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. but the worst part - and this has not been said here - is that over 600,000 workers worldwide are now afraid of losing their jobs. in my home region in eastern germany alone, there are three vw plants. others could sing worse songs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. what we need are safe procedures and tests to implement standards so that european cars are actually low-emission and energy-efficient. one thing we cannot allow to happen is that this is carried out on the backs of the workers.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i think it's undeniable that what happened is inexcusable. however, i would also like to point out that we should refrain from discrediting the entire industry now, because - as has already been mentioned - millions of people earn their daily bread from it. nevertheless, i believe that this scandal must be the prelude to measures which have not been able to win a majority. i want to make a list. firstly, i think that random testing should be introduced for vehicles already registered. this is crucial. secondly, the principle of real driving emission testing must be applied, because i do not think it can be explained that the laboratory values are more or less decisive and that the actual real emissions are not taken into account. it would also contribute to the protection of the air and the environment and would benefit consumers through greater transparency. i am still thinking of more europe in the networking of the competent authorities. this scandal may be a prelude to a convergence of the automobile industry in europe to invest in new technologies such as storage technology, hybrid technology, etc. i would like to ask the european commission a final question: there are voices which say that the german authorities and the german ministry of transport have been aware of such practices for some time. does your institution intend to follow up on these indications?
mr president, the volkswagen case was uncovered by the us authorities, but let us imagine for a minute that it had been disclosed by a whistle—blower or an independent researcher. they would most likely have come into conflict with the law. criminalisation of firmware analysis enables dark secrets to stay in the dark for too long. it is not enough to just strengthen our testing authorities. we must allow researchers, consumer organisations, hackers and even competitors to analyse the firmware deployed on end-user goods, be this your car, your coffee machine or your pacemaker. the us environmental protection agency is now investigating, but it has in the past argued before the us copyright office not to allow the circumvention of technological protection in cars. volkswagen itself sold millions of cars which could be opened by anyone who had a fake remote key. in 2013, volkswagen was alerted and then went after the researchers, preventing them from publishing their security-relevant findings because they were disclosing trade secrets. so, dear colleagues, let us be very careful when negotiating the trade secrets directive in trilogue not to include new lines of defence for volkswagen’s dirty secrets.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think that the public - at least in germany - is much less interested in how emissions are measured and what the environmental impact is, than in the question: what is going on with vw? what about vw, that faltering giant? what about the company, which has been a sort of workhorse of german industry and now suddenly seems to be on very thin footing, with a stock market crash of 43 percent of its pre-crisis value? the question is, what if such a large company is now potentially in serious trouble? what if vw is potentially going bankrupt, with over a quarter of a million jobs, plus suppliers over half a million jobs? the question is, how will people react? what i personally don't want is for it to be the taxpayer who has to help vw out of the mess. i think we have to think about this, that we should create a kind of mutual guarantee for large industrial companies, similar to the banks.
mr president, my old friend! i'm glad to be here today to talk about this. the facts are known. i've been involved in this issue for 25 years, and i see the division of tasks, the criticism sometimes a little differently. i think that the commission has a duty to do something about this. the commission can only intervene to the extent that the council follows parliament and the commission. i am very sorry, mr president, that the council is not here today, because in the last twenty years, when it comes to type-approval, the council has always blocked, postponed, gambled and used all the other tricks of the world to avoid a result or a cheese with holes in it. that's what we have now, and that's our problem. the commission will be biting its teeth at this. so i think the points that have been written and spoken are very important. quick and thorough investigation, no question about it; strict control. but right now, we're working on the new type cycle data, and that's where the error is blocked. you have to look at it. there is a coefficient - the commission says we take one, and the car industry wants to have another for each individual company, yes, that is another swiss cheese. we need to work on that a lot more diligently. i think the council really needs to be held accountable here. we're negotiating an nec policy. the nec directive is not about co2, it's about the air quality of cities. and that's where we did a disservice to the citizens by letting eight million cars with the wrong data drive through the area. i would ask all colleagues to take a real interest in this question of the nec, and this concerns nox levels, and to develop feasible but strict regulations to this end. the automotive industry needs to change from the ground up, and nothing will ever be the same as it was a month ago.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i have been driving a diesel car for many years, and i plan to continue driving a diesel car for the next few years. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not affected by the oil crisis. the vw scandal is a big scandal. fraud in the conduct of the test procedures is totally unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is not misled by the fact that the european parliament is not a political body. i would also like to say that we must be careful not to discredit an entire industry. the automotive industry is responsible for hundreds of thousands of jobs throughout europe. many colleagues have pointed this out. that is why i simply ask for a differentiated approach. in addition to the vw, other cars were tested in the united states at the time, and all of them passed the tests. so it's not that bad. what is to be done? the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of road transport services, such as the introduction of a new road safety code, the introduction of a new road safety code and the introduction of a new road safety code. i think that this test procedure needs to be developed at a very fast pace. i would also like to ask the commission to explain why this is taking so long, how long it is going to take, and what the commission can do to speed things up. i think that in europe we are waiting for testing methods that really correspond to the real conditions on the streets. i therefore ask you to do everything possible to implement this as soon as possible. we have good cars, made here in europe, that are competitive internationally, and we must not let that be ruined. i'll tell you what, scandals are solvable.
the commission has already done so. there has been a lot of talk today and in the last few days about the fraud by vw. i would also like to point out that the trust of the employees - that is, almost 600 000 employees of the group worldwide - has been abused by the company's top management. almost all of them may have been unaware of this manipulation, and yet their jobs may now be threatened. it is in their interests that the group has the responsibility, but also the duty, to clarify this now. transparent education is one thing. vw, for example, can also regain confidence by supporting the development and implementation of the new emissions tests. i think it is also important for the european car industry as a whole to focus more on innovative and sustainable powertrains. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. this should be part of a strategy to safeguard jobs in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european automobile industry is a success story. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. european diesel technology is a success story, innovation, co2 reduction, economy, durability benefiting the environment and customers. but where there's light, there's shadow. vw has been deceiving the customers. we must clarify and sanction this, there is no doubt about it. but please, let's not throw the baby out with the bath! it is a question of fraud, not of even stricter emission standards, which large parts of the european car industry would not survive. it is a question of realistic measurement methods, not of banning a successful and economical diesel technology. we are also allowed to look at the usa: obviously, the u.s. authorities have known about the illegal practices for a long time. why now, when the new passat was about to rock the u.s. market? and if they care so much about the environment, why doesn't the us take care of the us trucks, these giant nitrous oxide dumpsters? so, ladies and gentlemen, let's clarify, let's create transparency, but let's not put an entire industry under general suspicion! the employees and their families didn't deserve this. this is not even close to the ecological advances made by the automobile industry.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. three points for you. first, we need to get to the bottom of this fraud as quickly as possible and make sure it doesn't happen again. secondly, we need legislation to measure real emissions rde quickly, and i hope the commission will do so quickly, without any further fraud. thirdly, i do not entirely agree with the idea that we should always be putting volkswagen on the spot. these were some engineers and board members who cheated. but 600,000 colleagues have done their jobs, done good quality work and have been committed to social responsibility. so let us really identify the fraudsters and ensure that the 600 000 colleagues have a future in their careers! we must put emphasis on industrial policy so that our colleagues at volkswagen and at the suppliers do not risk losing their jobs. that is why the commission is called upon to take action here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. some of you may know that i had the honor of being the prime minister of lower saxony for a period of time, from 2010 to 2013. lower saxony is the home of volkswagen, and the prime minister is automatically a member of the supervisory board. i know this company, and i suffer with this company. volkswagen is going through a difficult time. the irresponsible manipulation of emissions values is the biggest challenge facing the company, and one that volkswagen will certainly have to contend with for some years. there was a staff meeting in wolfsburg today. mr müller was speaking and answering, and the staff - i would like to emphasize what was said - was completely surprised by this development. volkswagen employs over 600 000 people who work hard every day for the company and do a very good job. and therefore, it is irresponsible and unfair to put the entire company under general suspicion. that is why our appeal today must be: we stand with volkswagen, we stand with its employees. volkswagen is the largest industrial company in europe. we all have an interest in the european automobile industry and volkswagen staying stable in the long term.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i came back from tunis yesterday. there, i held talks with unsmil with representatives of libyan parties, human rights activists and representatives of various tribes. a declaration of political agreement was supported by all sides, although there was criticism that many of the more influential actors were not consulted. the text of the declaration, as far as it is available, can also be regarded as positive, particularly as regards the protection of human rights and the prosecution of crimes. but we must not be under any illusions. the agreement is important, but its implementation is more difficult. there are a variety of militias that pursue their interests. not everyone will sign. even with a signature, there is a risk of further escalation and violence. the rift in the country has also deepened economically and socially. in all these circumstances, the formation and stabilisation of a national unity government is a huge challenge which will require further substantial support from the eu. and the eu's influence would be all the greater if all the member states spoke with one voice. in recent years, we have received reports of horrific human rights violations against libyans, migrants and refugees. we must fight this with all our might. i very much hope that the eu will continue to support the work of human rights activists inside and outside libya, as their work is also of great importance for the peace process.
the commission has already done so. the best thing to be said about the present situation is that the international community is essentially behind the bernardino león plan. that is good enough, but unfortunately it does not help us in the present situation. it is also good that we are prepared to provide a support package in the event of a political deal. but i'm afraid we won't get there anytime soon. as you can hear, the delegation from tripoli has apparently been recalled from morocco, which means that the mediation efforts are not being continued by morocco either, and on the other hand the parliament in tobruk has apparently extended its mandate beyond 20 october. so there's no good prospect on either side that we're going to come to a solution anytime soon. i think we have to realize that there are certain militias that have no interest at all in the fact that you are united in tripoli and tobruk because they are doing their business, practicing their criminal activities. but we also see that different forces are supporting tripoli and tobruk. now tobruk is the recognized government. i have no objection to it being supported. but it mentions names of those who support tripoli: turkey, qatar and sudan. the question i have is whether, in the context of the talks we are having with turkey, for example, we are not even asking what interest this country may have in the fact that another structure is in charge in tripoli and that it is not able or not willing to reach a conclusion here. i think that would be an important point to discuss with turkey, among others.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the death penalty is not an appropriate response to murder and crime. where the state rises to judge life and death, it is not justice that prevails, but revenge and retribution. this attitude is the basis of the eu's policy to work for the abolition of the death penalty worldwide, and to do so successfully: 101 countries have abolished the death penalty for all crimes, and 33 states have done so in practice but not in law. unfortunately, we have seen a dramatic increase in executions in some countries, and unfortunately, in 2014, seven states resumed executions or ended long-standing moratoriums in some cases. the death penalty can be imposed for the most serious crimes under international law, but 33 countries, including china, iran and saudi arabia, apply the death penalty for drug offences. the eu is also committed to abolishing the death penalty. but at the same time, the eu and its member states are involved in drug control programmes in these countries through funding from the un office on drugs and crime. independent review of these un programmes in pakistan and iran raises concerns that there is a direct link with the use of the death penalty. the eu must ensure that human rights standards are consistently applied in all the drug control programmes it supports and that information on the programme is available. the abolition of the death penalty for drug offences should therefore be the precondition for financial and technical support in this area.
i prefer to continue with the debate. (the speaker refused to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8) from mr korwin-mikke)
i have to say, madam president, we in the ecr group have a clear idea of what we want this eu to be. we call ourselves eu-critical, but critical in the positive sense, that is, we want a well-functioning eu. there is much to criticize, because we believe that the eu should limit itself to the areas where it can add value. but in this case, we can happily say, this is one of them. the procedure proposed creates standards and unifies matters which have hitherto posed major problems for the individuals concerned and for the companies concerned in the case of national regulations. here we have a wonderful case where the eu can add value. we expressly welcome the fact that the house has been able to get its way here, on the one hand by lifting the dispute values which have been the subject of debate so far and on the other hand by supporting the proceedings electronically in future. and of course, we also hope that we can put these procedures into practice in a way that is easy for all involved to apply.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we all want the european single market and for many years the commission and we in parliament have been working towards removing all the obstacles and barriers. we all want to exploit the full potential of digitalisation for our citizens and for our smes in the european union. this includes the ability to order products and services from anywhere in the eu. but it also means that when disputes arise, when difficulties arise, it is easy and inexpensive to enforce your rights in the european union. and it is precisely this purpose, this objective, that we are now pursuing, which we shall then vote on tomorrow at noon. some 25 years after the creation of the european single market, a european procedure was introduced in 2007 to enable citizens and smes to achieve a faster, more efficient and cost-effective eu-wide resolution of precisely these cross-border disputes. what we have now - thanks to the rapporteurs of all the groups - negotiated in the revision and what we will be voting on tomorrow is another step in the right direction. the advantages are clear. there are multilingual forms. the procedure can be started online. the court fees must also be proportionate to the value of the case. i also think it is right that the ceiling for small claims has been set at eur 5 000 and not eur 10 000, as was the commission's original proposal. a major problem - which has also been raised - is that the procedure is still not widely used. we must therefore work particularly to make this procedure known to the public in order to exploit the full potential of the european internal market. we are all called upon to do so - the commission and the members of the european parliament. we will do this!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the directive on casein and caseinates which is being discussed here today is - and this has already been said - a very technical matter. attention, especially at this time of day, is also correspondingly low. i think the importance is underestimated because we all like to eat quark and cheese. caseins and their water-soluble form, the caseinate, are an important prerequisite for their production. but you can do better. they are also used as milk-whiteners in coffee and even as clarifiers in rosé wines. edible caseins and caseinates and only these are milk proteins and therefore also subject to the labelling as allergens, as regulated in eu regulation no 1169/2011. this fact was taken into account in the new directive as well as in the codex alimentarius, which was mentioned earlier, where casein is concerned with the water content and the lactic acid content. the implementation period in the member states has also been increased from 9 to 12 months in the trilog. i thank the chairman of the envi committee, mr la via, for the prompt consultation and cooperative cooperation and i recommend that parliament approve the directive so that we can all continue to enjoy good cheese and cottage cheese in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i personally would like a parmigiano made with milk.
madam president, i do not see any violation of democracy in this. we've had other guests.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the deadly us airstrikes on a doctors without borders clinic in kundus, afghanistan (2015/2891 ((rsp)). i would inform the members that there is no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate and no blue cards will be accepted.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, honourable members, dear colleagues, thank you for this exchange and this wide consensus on the demand for a specific investigation. we expect specific results from that investigation. i would like to repeat that the european union will continue to work with the national unity government during this difficult period. this is very important. we will stand at its side and we will do all we can to protect the gains made since the fall of the taliban regime. i think this is most significant and it is a precondition for any progressive work on the ground in afghanistan. of course, all of us in this parliament and in all the european institutions expect the results of the investigation as soon as possible. thank you again for this discussion.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in syria (2015/2870 ((rsp)). it was originally intended that mr schmit should speak on behalf of the luxembourg presidency of the council on behalf of the vice-president and high representative for foreign affairs and security policy. he hasn't arrived yet. the first and second speakers are not in the room either. the third speaker has just arrived. if someone here has missed their slot, i don't usually know pardon. we shall now make an exception for a few minutes and begin with the third speaker, mr tannock. are you ready?
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, honourable members, the terrible conflict in syria you just described is now in its fifth year, and at this point there is still little sign of peace on the horizon. that is unfortunately true. a quarter of a million people have been killed; 12 million – half of the country’s population – have been displaced. four million of these have left to lebanon, jordan and turkey, and as europeans we are all aware that many of these refugees are now trying to reach europe in search of peace and a more human life. many are predicting new waves of refugees from inside syria in the months to come. europe has to handle the humanitarian consequences of this conflict, including the flows of refugees. a high-level conference on the eastern mediterranean and western balkans route takes place tomorrow in luxembourg. we have spent eur 4 billion so far, making us the biggest international donor and, faced with the additional flows of refugees this year, we are going to spend more. we will spend more on immediate aid for refugees, providing them with shelter and food, and we will also spend more on essential services such as health and education: an additional eur 1 billion will be mobilised. the first contract opened through the new trust fund for syria deals with schools and education. syria is losing a whole generation to war and exile: only education can give a future to a whole country. we expect that, by the end of this year, the 500 million that we are putting into the fund will be matched by member states’ contributions. it is a huge financial effort, reflecting the scale of the crisis. this effort will not in itself halt the refugee flow from syria: only when there is hope for an end to the war and prospects to return home will the current refugee crisis head towards a conclusion. there is growing consensus in the international community that ending the syrian war needs a two-track approach. this has been verified during a number of meetings over the past two weeks in new york and in brussels. on the one hand, we need to successfully fight the terrorist threat of isil – or daesh (a threat, by the way, which is spreading beyond the region) – and in parallel to this, we need to do all we can to support the political process led by the un special envoy, staffan de mistura, to get the syrians talking to each other again. on the fight against terrorism: the eu is not militarily involved, but we can and do actively support with non-military means the objectives of the global coalition against daesh. our engagement goes far, from reducing the threats of radicalisation and the recruitment of new foreign terrorist fighters in european countries to seeing what can be done to stop the flow of revenue to daesh. but it is in supporting the un-led peace efforts that the eu has most to contribute. different regional and international actors have a substantial influence on the syrian parties. they must assume their responsibilities and finally bring all the players to the table for serious negotiations. the eu is able to engage with all the relevant regional and international powers. we are talking to the russians, the iranians, the saudis and the turks. i think the iranians understand that this is going to be their first test to see if they can play a more constructive role after the nuclear deal. the eu also underlines the importance of preserving state structures and functions, in order to ensure security, order and the provision of basic services to the people of syria during a political transition. we can work on that together with the international community. similarly, we can also make our contribution to bringing the different strands of the syrian political and military opposition together behind a common vision and purpose. in july, representatives of the two main umbrella groups of the political opposition, the soc and the ncc, met in brussels, having been brought together by the high representative. during the meeting they agreed a draft roadmap for the future political transition. none of this is going to be easy. the war in syria is a very complex matter. it has multiple players with many diverging objectives. the latest phase has been marked by military escalation, both by syrian and by non-syrian participants. a military escalation in the civil war will lead nowhere: it will only prolong the agony of the conflict. fighting terrorism is one thing – and in syria that means fighting the groups defined as terrorists by the united nations, including daesh and jabhat al-nusra. it does not mean fighting alongside the regime in the civil war. that would only provoke a matching increase in the arms supplies by some regional powers to the opposition. there are measures that would promote de-escalation and peace, an end to the bombing and shelling of civilian areas and an end to the use of barrel bombs. commitments of this kind could go a long way towards fostering sufficient trust to allow the beginnings of a real dialogue on transition. we can also intensify our humanitarian diplomacy. we can seek ways to provide access and protection, as well as to promote humanitarian principles and consensus on the guideline for the delivery of aid. as recalled by the european council, the union is committed to doing its part in supporting the un-led efforts. i believe that, in the face of so much suffering on our doorstep, it is our duty to respond. you can count on our collective engagement on this. i thank you for your attention and look forward to hearing your views.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is true that the european union does a lot for refugees, it provides humanitarian aid. but we see that it's not enough when you look at the food supply in the camps and in syria, and that the cuts by many member states of the european union have led to the current refugee situation. but i don't want to focus on that right now. mr president-in-office, in the second part of your speech you made it clear that we must bring about the peace process. if that fails, everything else will only have a soothing effect and will not solve the problem. we must see that we have a web of power politics interests that make it difficult to bring this together. the fight for regional power, particularly between saudi arabia and iran, but also the particular, not entirely transparent role of turkey in this matter. if we cannot bring these countries together and stop the proxy war there, which now threatens them with the rise of daesh, because they must now have their own interest in finding a solution, then it will not happen. but it also has to do with the great powers. i sometimes get the impression that the second level of proxy wars between the world powers russia and america still plays a role. how far can russia stabilize and expand its lasting power position there? how can america prevent this? this is another level where you don't get together. i think that the european union must play a decisive role here. we must - and this has nothing to do with the ukraine crisis, that we have to give in there - work with russia and america, as we have done on the issue of iran's nuclear weapons. to find a solution at this level, to bring the regional quarrels together and find a solution. these two levels have to be brought together, and i think it's crucial to achieve that. i have the impression that this is not enough. (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not as early as 2012, voices from within the us government warned of the possible consequences of a militarization of the then-protest movement against the syrian ruler assad. but what happened? this is precisely what we are doing, and we are doing it with active support, including from the west. a 2012 us intelligence report predicted the emergence of the islamic state. the real scandal is that the report states bluntly and clearly that this is in the interests of turkey, saudi arabia and also the western states to isolate assad. the overthrow of assad was accomplished by any means necessary. the strengthening of radical islamist forces was apparently welcomed and even actively promoted. now the proxy war in syria threatens to turn into a conflagration. the left is calling for an immediate end to all airstrikes in syria. peace cannot be achieved militarily, with or without a un mandate, regardless of whether the bombs are coming from... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had the opportunity to visit syria two months ago at the invitation of the syrian government and to see firsthand what is going on there. it was the high-ranking representatives of the orthodox church, the anglican church and the armenian church who begged us europeans to stop giving special rights to christian refugees. because christians are not persecuted in syria. they have never been persecuted, and they have lived there peacefully with the muslims for centuries. we are now witnessing another double-talk in this house. four days of russian air operations and already there is talk of bombing and casualties. who speaks of the victims of the turkish air force, the american air force, whose attacks all have one goal, namely to support isis? the islamic state must be hit there, on the ground. i welcome the russian intervention ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mrs konečná, your question, please. (mr tannock protests because he thought the president would not allow any more questions on the 'blue card' to be asked.) i would like to thank mr tannock. i explained this earlier: if i am taking someone's word, i will not give them a blue card because i do not want to reward someone who exceeds his speaking time by giving him a blue card. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the council's proposals are implemented. mr kelam finished his speech on time. that is why i now ask mrs konečná to put the question.
mr president, mr schmit, you are very well aware of the situation. the agreement with iran has shown that diplomatic efforts can succeed, even when they seem almost hopeless. we must also bear this lesson in mind for the civil war in syria. we need a political process that brings all the parties to the conflict to the table. it's the only way to stop the killing. only a political solution will allow the syrians to live together in peace again. russia's unilateral military intervention is nothing new. i have been pointing out for months in this house that russia is keeping its protective hand over assad and must be involved in resolving the conflict. this has nothing to do with giving in to the sanctions on ukraine. it is disastrous that president putin is now actively involved in the civil war. russia is enabling assad to continue terrorizing the population of entire cities with barrel bombs on a daily basis. this has to stop! we must not forget that it is this terror of the assad regime in particular that has driven and continues to drive millions of syrians from their homeland. i would like to thank the high representative for her diplomatic efforts.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i do not think that we europeans have different interests in the syrian issue. my assessment is that we are essentially in agreement, but we have not yet made the consistency to do more than provide humanitarian aid or take in refugees without any reason. now it is urgent to get all the global and regional stakeholders to the table. the status quo is not sustainable for the people of syria, its neighbors or the global players. so it is not helpful that russia is bombing in favor of the assad regime, which is the main cause of the flight of people. even if i were to take into account russian interests in latakia airport or the port of tartus, i am convinced that at the end of a negotiation process there can be no future for assad. the vast majority of syrians will not accept this, even if he has the support of the far right and the far left here in the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. refugees are flowing from syria and northern iraq through greece, serbia, hungary, austria to europe, to germany, sweden and other countries. the country that lies between this region and us, turkey, is a great, proud country, a country that deserves to be treated with respect and honesty, a strategic partner. but what we hear from the council here makes one pause in astonishment. we must ensure that democratic values are respected in turkey. the freedom of the press is being trampled underfoot, an undeclared war is being waged against the kurds, the body of a kurdish politician is being dragged through the streets in a police car, judges and prosecutors who are doing their job are being prosecuted, and in some cases even arrested. is this really an expansion candidate? no, ladies and gentlemen, i'm not going to do it. the council is trying to put a vital lie to the world once again, that we could treat turkey as a strategic partner and at the same time continue the enlargement agenda. it is significant that the commission, at the council's insistence, postponed the progress report because the accession process has stalled for all the reasons i have just mentioned. however, let us be honest with this country and treat it with respect. we need turkey's help, but turkey needs our help. we can offer visa relief, we can offer more money, we can offer better infrastructure support in the refugee camps, we can do a lot of pragmatic things to address the real challenges. but let 's be honest . turkey is a strategic partner, an important neighbour, but the fact that this enlargement process can be revived is pure rhetoric, and has nothing to do with honesty. we must not remain silent in the face of the violation of fundamental values there. many turkish friends write to us these days. and at the same time, this country needs our cooperation, and we need their cooperation, if we are to get the situation in syria and iraq under control. this is precisely what is needed to stop the flow of refugees across the european continent. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that this is the case. the accession procedure is bound by the copenhagen criteria. the first criterion, the political criterion, refers to the fundamental values of the european union as set out in article 2 of the treaty. these values - freedom of the press, freedom of expression, freedom of association, for example, of trade unions - are coming under increasing pressure. the president of turkey is constantly breaking the constitution by not being neutral but by interfering in the election campaign. we have a huge problem with turkey as a candidate country. but as a partner in the region, we cannot do without turkey, and as a nato partner, it is an important ally and neighbor and will remain so. that's the honesty i require. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague tannock, i am glad to see that we agree on the analysis. the internal political situation in turkey is anything but normal as far as basic values are concerned. this is a bad development. unfortunately, the polls don't suggest that the political landscape will change after the election. as for the pre-entry aid, i think we can talk about it. you are under the wrong heading early retirement for an accession that will certainly not happen in the next 10 to 20 years, if at all. but i want to make it clear that if we want to cooperate with turkey, we must also give it financial support. it is always cheaper to help there than to decide in our reception centres in europe what to do with the people who then flee from turkey to us. i think that in this respect, yes to the epc, but no to the withdrawal of aid, because working with turkey also means helping it in this very difficult situation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in this situation we urgently need close cooperation with turkey. there is much to criticize, in turkish domestic politics, in the treatment of the kurds and in many other areas. if we want to manage the crisis in the region, if we want to end the war in syria and iraq, but above all if we want to control the situation with regard to refugees, we cannot do so without turkey. that is why i believe that the talks which president erdoğan held in brussels on monday should be continued and that the question of support for turkey should be taken forward, as regards the financing of camps, food, the conditions for the closure of the borders and many other things. i hope that the negotiations currently taking place at official level in ankara will be successful. i hope that president erdoğan's interests in the context of the november 1 elections are not an obstacle in this matter, but i believe that turkey, which has a customs union with the european union, which is a member of nato, has a crucial responsibility to end this incredible, this catastrophic humanitarian situation and to end the war. i hope that turkey will be brought, as far as possible, without violating human rights, into a cooperation which is important to us all.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in 2005, turkish writer orhan pamuk said at a prize ceremony: 'in all the novels i read in my youth, europe was not defined by christianity but rather by individualism. europe was introduced to me in an attractive way through the heroes of novels who fought for their freedom and wanted to make it a reality. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. this partnership process has failed, but the heads of the eu institutions are issuing checks for the sealing off of refugees at the eu's external borders. barely a word about the violence against journalists, kurds, destroyed hdp offices, not a word about the buried hopes of the gezi movement. this campaign support is a blow to the humanistic values of europe.
madam president, just yesterday leyla zana was here in parliament. it was mentioned and everybody who wanted to had the chance to listen to her and her report about the situation in turkey. she was talking about how the freedom of the press is violated, how kurds are under attack and whole kurdish villages are under attack. yet unfortunately, from the commission, from the council and also from the member states we hear very little – surprisingly little – critique of turkey. instead, when erdoğan comes to brussels he is welcomed with full honours, and there is a reason for that. the commission and, it seems, also the council, want to make a dirty deal: they want to make sure that erdoğan stops the refugees who are fleeing from the war in syria towards europe, so that they stay in turkey. the other side of the deal is that president erdoğan gets complete silence from the european arena. i think this deal is wrong. it is not a deal that is worthy of eu values, of human rights and of what we are fighting for. it is not worthy, both because of what it means for refugees and because of what it entails for human rights in turkey. declaring turkey to be a safe country of origin is even more cynical. how can people be safe when journalists are being put in prison? how can minorities be safe in turkey? they simply are not. so, yes to cooperation with turkey, yes to supporting turkey – because it is indeed receiving a lot of refugees – and yes to credible accession negotiations, but no to these dirty deals on the back of refugees.
i have to say, madam president, turkey has been and is an important strategic partner for us. no one's arguing that. and she's very special right now. but do we have to court them as much as we have done in brussels? does the fire-prone internal state of turkey suddenly matter? for years now, we have seen nothing but regression and a departure from european values. it is not a safe third country in my view. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. he also says he's been teaching us a lesson in humanity. i think that's bold. is it humane to use war refugees as a means of pressure on the eu? turkey is, after all, largely responsible for the mass influx into europe. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. and of course people want to go, because there are very few, only a fraction of the two million or so in turkey who are in refugee camps and who are getting basic services. are not many in the country traveling and begging and having to try to make a living doing illegal, low-paying work? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in turkey is not so bad as it is today. what does erdoğan want? he also wants financial support. that's right, too. i'm also in favor of giving him money. but that's not the point. it's about something else. for example, visa liberalization is also a matter of concern. it is linked to the readmission agreement, which erdoğan is violating by opening the borders to the european union. let me say one more thing: i want to know from the european commission why the presentation of the progress report, which was scheduled for next week, has been postponed. i have heard that this progress report was allegedly leaked to the turkish government in advance and that erdoğan complained about it. but now, because of the desire to be so good to mr erdoğan, this progress report is postponed until easter monday because it is critical. i demand to know!
your majesty, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to welcome his majesty king philip to the european parliament in strasbourg today. your majesty, we have had the opportunity to meet on previous occasions, and i know you as a thoughtful and informed man, as a man with a great deal of experience in international and european affairs. i therefore look forward to your speech with great interest. a very important speech in these difficult times for europe as we try to meet the challenge of our times - immigration - and a very timely speech, given that this year we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the signing of the treaty of accession of spain to the european community. anniversaries are always a good time to take stock of successes and failures, but also to make plans for the future. thirty years ago the dream of many generations of spaniards finally came true: after a long exile, after many hardships and sacrifices, spain was returning to its rightful place in the european democratic family. over the last 30 years, europe has helped to make spain better and stronger. spain has in turn contributed to making europe better and stronger. it was a huge success. i would like spain to continue to contribute with its passion and ideas to europe's success in the years to come. in these difficult times, the european union needs spain more than ever. i am therefore very pleased that his majesty king philip is honouring us with his presence today. your majesty, i give you a warm welcome to the european parliament and i give you the floor.
your highness! i would like to thank you very much for the extraordinary encouragement you have given this parliament with your speech. i believe that the encouragement you have given our house with your words is not unheard of here. the fight for a united europe, which you have made your cause in your speech, is our common task. i believe i speak for the members of this house when i thank you from the bottom of my heart for this great speech. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would just like to say that i would have liked to have had a little more courage in the parliamentary calendar for 2017, a little more courage in the sense that we can of course also agree to save meetings in brussels in favour of meetings in strasbourg. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the commission's proposals are implemented. i am very sorry about that. but i say again, it's not always night. perhaps we can make some improvements in that direction. my petition is that, if we are already meeting here in strasbourg, we should take advantage of the time and cancel a mini-plenum in brussels from time to time in favour of a regular regular committee meeting.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the 2017 calendar. at the same time, i must say that i have done so with reservations: i am firmly opposed to the several hundred million-dollar renovations of the dilapidated buildings in the second place of work in brussels, which were disclosed in the welle plan! such a waste of money is not acceptable to the taxpayer. i am calling for the european parliament to move as soon as possible to our only real single seat: strasbourg!
in writing. ‒ i agreed to the meeting calendar. my group has tabled an amendment to limit the strasbourg part-session week to three days. the ep is obliged to hold 12 plenary sessions a month in strasbourg. however, there is no indication of how long they will last. since the beginning of the legislature, it has been accepted that the plenary session begins only in the late afternoon of monday and ends at noon on thursday. the president of parliament, mr martin schulz, nevertheless decided, without giving any reason, not to vote on our ecr amendment on the reduction of the length of stay. the only thing that still obliges us to maintain the expensive travelling circus is the eu treaty. the eu institutionally supports the vacancy of 200,000 square metres of office space in several buildings for 300 days at an additional cost of €180 million per year. that is why i was the first member to propose that we make the ep in strasbourg a temporary reception centre for migrants and refugees in the franco-german border area. commission vice-president frans timmermans said: 'i want to thank this parliament for its leadership in this issue'. then please, let's take this seriously. instead of trying to expropriate individuals, we should use the empty european parliament in strasbourg as a reception centre for refugees. above the chamber there are at least 750 single rooms available, as each member's office has its own bed and shower/toilet. and in brussels there is already a fully functioning parliamentary structure.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in the union's programmes, as i, as the acp coordinator of my group, have always advocated development cooperation on a diplomatic level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on the general principles for the participation of tunisia in union programmes. this will enable tunisia to receive technical assistance of a financial nature. this will provide a sustainable and comprehensive stimulus to the tunisian economy and support the reform, modernisation and transition process in the eu's neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can say it's a good thing. the european procedure for crossborder small claims already exists. the experience we have had so far has shown that we have been able to reduce the costs for those concerned by 40%. the duration of the procedure was also considerably reduced. this has given us the courage to raise the limit from eur 2 000 to eur 10 000 and the good thing is that with eur 10 000 we will be able to settle 50% of all disputes in this procedure. this is particularly true of citizens and particularly of small and mediumsized enterprises. it's very important to them. i think the big companies, they have legal departments, they can take care of their claim, but it's particularly about the european single market. the small and mediumsized enterprises are particularly affected. and then, if we can come up with some other improvements, we can keep going. this is a good day for the citizens of europe as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates the extension of the small claims procedure and the european order for payment, which have been in place since 2007, with the aim of making it easier, faster and cheaper to settle disputes in crossborder cases with a small value for money. the procedure is intended to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to enforce their claims and to ensure access to justice. in its 2011 resolution, parliament noted that 'the use of small claims courts remains low in some member states and that more needs to be done in terms of legal certainty, language barriers and procedural transparency. other the commission is proposing to increase the threshold for small claims covered by the european procedure from the current eur 2000 to eur 5000. the new threshold for smes is expected to be a significant improvement. the increase in the threshold proposed by parliament, the council and the commission in the trilogue procedure, the improved use of electronic communications and the limitation of court fees can bring savings and cost savings to both businesses and consumers. i have therefore voted in favour of this report. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates the extension of the small claims procedure and the european order for payment, which have been in place since 2007, with the aim of making it easier, faster and cheaper to settle disputes in crossborder cases with a small value for money. the procedure is intended to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to enforce their claims and to ensure access to justice. in its 2011 resolution, parliament noted that 'the use of small claims courts remains low in some member states and that more needs to be done in terms of legal certainty, language barriers and procedural transparency. other the commission is proposing to increase the threshold for small claims covered by the european procedure from the current eur 2000 to eur 5000. the new threshold for smes is expected to be a significant improvement. the increase in the threshold proposed by parliament, the council and the commission in the trilogue procedure, the improved use of electronic communications and the limitation of court fees can bring savings and cost savings to both businesses and consumers. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates the extension of the small claims procedure and the european order for payment, which have been in place since 2007, with the aim of making it easier, faster and cheaper to settle disputes in crossborder cases with a small value for money. the procedure is intended to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to enforce their claims and to ensure access to justice. in its 2011 resolution, parliament noted that 'the use of small claims courts remains low in some member states and that more needs to be done in terms of legal certainty, language barriers and procedural transparency. other the commission is proposing to increase the threshold for small claims covered by the european procedure from the current eur 2000 to eur 5000. the new threshold for smes is expected to be a significant improvement. the increase in the threshold proposed by parliament, the council and the commission in the trilogue procedure, the improved use of electronic communications and the limitation of court fees can bring savings and cost savings to both businesses and consumers. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on a european small claims procedure and a european reminder procedure because i believe that the unification of these rules is of the utmost importance in the common especially digital internal market. this will provide legal certainty for customers and smes engaged in cross-border trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of the european small claims procedure and the european order for payment procedure. the increase in the thresholds is an important step towards extending the protection of consumers and small businesses across borders in the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates the extension of the small claims procedure and the european order for payment, which have been in place since 2007, with the aim of making it easier, faster and cheaper to settle disputes in crossborder cases with a small value for money. the procedure is intended to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to enforce their claims and to ensure access to justice. in its 2011 resolution, parliament noted that 'the use of small claims courts remains low in some member states and that more needs to be done in terms of legal certainty, language barriers and procedural transparency. other the commission is proposing to increase the threshold for small claims covered by the european procedure from the current eur 2000 to eur 5000. the new threshold for smes is expected to be a significant improvement. the increase in the threshold proposed by parliament, the council and the commission in the trilogue procedure, the improved use of electronic communications and the limitation of court fees can bring savings and cost savings to both businesses and consumers. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution because the outcome of the trilogue negotiations is in our favour: less bureaucracy and simpler procedures in eu trade. in five years' time, an evaluation will be carried out. we shall then see whether this decision on the reminder procedure made sense or whether it needs to be improved further.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i agreed to the report, but i have two souls in my chest. i would say: 'i hear the message, but i do not have the faith' but i would also ask my colleagues in the committee responsible in advance to really follow up and monitor things so that the things mentioned in the report actually happen. i agreed to this on two grounds: it expressly states that the proposed amendment should improve the chances of realistic implementation of the directive, so that it can become an important instrument for improving air quality in the european union without imposing unjustified burdens on society and the economy. and it should also be a contribution to the process of de-bureaucratisation. if that happens, that's fine, but if not, we'll have to do it again. so once again, i would like to appeal to the responsible colleagues in the committee: please watch the further handling of this story so that we can also appreciate and implement what is in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the air. as a member of the european parliament for the family party, i am guided by the principle that we have only borrowed the world from our children. i therefore support all measures which help in a practical way to make our economy more sustainable.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the report on limiting emissions of certain pollutants into the air. air pollution is a transnational problem requiring action at union level. the proposed amendments to the original legislative proposal will contribute to the reduction of red tape. this would improve air quality across the eu without imposing unjustified burdens on the economy and society.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants. as part of the air quality package, the eu commission presented the proposal for a directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants in december 2013. the directive is intended to apply to combustion plants with a heat output of up to 50 megawatts; this applies in particular to large buildings as well as small industrial plants. it is proposed to introduce a registration requirement for medium combustion plants and to set emission limit values for pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen and particulate matter produced by combustion plants. while small and large combustion plants are regulated, emissions from medium-sized combustion plants are not regulated. there are currently no limit proposals. the commission is working on this. our committee, itre, supports this report for the following main reasons: air pollution is a transnational problem therefore regulation at eu level is necessary. it is intended to fill a significant gap in eu law. according to a commission impact assessment, the health costs of air pollution in europe are estimated at around eur 940 million per year. i voted in favour of this report. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants. as part of the air quality package, the eu commission presented the proposal for a directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants in december 2013. the directive is intended to apply to combustion plants with a heat output of up to 50 megawatts; this applies in particular to large buildings as well as small industrial plants. it is proposed to introduce a registration requirement for medium combustion plants and to set emission limit values for pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen and particulate matter produced by combustion plants. while small and large combustion plants are regulated, emissions from medium-sized combustion plants are not regulated. there are currently no limit proposals. the commission is working on this. the parliamentary committee on itre supports this report for the following main reasons: air pollution is a transnational problem therefore regulation at eu level is necessary. it is intended to fill a significant gap in eu law. according to a commission impact assessment, the health costs of air pollution in europe are estimated at around eur 940 million per year. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants. as part of the air quality package, the eu commission presented the proposal for a directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants in december 2013. the directive is intended to apply to combustion plants with a heat output of up to 50 megawatts; this applies in particular to large buildings as well as small industrial plants. it is proposed to introduce a registration requirement for medium combustion plants and to set emission limit values for pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen and particulate matter produced by combustion plants. while small and large combustion plants are regulated, emissions from medium-sized combustion plants are not regulated. there are currently no limit proposals. the commission is working on this. our committee, itre, supports this report for the following main reasons: air pollution is a transnational problem therefore regulation at eu level is necessary. it is intended to fill a significant gap in eu law. according to a commission impact assessment, the health costs of air pollution in europe are estimated at around eur 940 million per year. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on the limitation of emissions of certain pollutants from medium combustion plants. as part of the air quality package, the eu commission presented the proposal for a directive on the reduction of pollution from medium combustion plants in december 2013. the directive is intended to apply to combustion plants with a heat output of up to 50 megawatts; this applies in particular to large buildings as well as small industrial plants. it is proposed to introduce a registration requirement for medium combustion plants and to set emission limit values for pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen and particulate matter produced by combustion plants. while small and large combustion plants are regulated, emissions from medium-sized combustion plants are not regulated. there are currently no limit proposals. the commission is working on this. our committee, itre, supports this report for the following main reasons: air pollution is a transnational problem therefore regulation at eu level is necessary. it is intended to fill a significant gap in eu law. according to a commission impact assessment, the health costs of air pollution in europe are estimated at around eur 940 million per year. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the regulation of emissions from combustion plants with a capacity of between 1 and 50 mw. the main reason is that this area has so far been left unregulated by the eu. but two other reasons are also crucial. firstly, it was agreed to exclude combustion plants in the offshore sector and in certain areas such as french overseas. if regulation is so good, it should be universal and equal for all. if the regulation requires exceptions to the scope, then it is bad. it doesn't matter where the air pollution is caused. i have supported the amendments. secondly, the commission is given the power to set the limit values. i think that this is a task which should be left to the legislator. since there are no adequate means of control of the commission by the european parliament, and even less of accountability, i reject the further undermining of the democratic principle, which is already weak at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because i consider action to promote safe and healthy food handling to be a high priority. the aim is to provide consumers with adequate information about the food they eat. even if the products covered by the proposal caseins and caseinates are not intended for sale to the final consumer but are only necessary for trade between food-producing enterprises, food business operators must have the information they need for the labelling of the final product. this is particularly true of allergens.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on caseins and caseinates for human consumption, as i consider food safety to be a key issue for the european internal market. we need clear rules here and we must keep them up to date for the benefit of consumers.
in writing. - i agreed to this request. this proposal harmonizes production standards and thus not only acts in the interests of the final consumer but also creates uniform guidelines for the manufacturing industry.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the regulation of caseins and caseinates. the main issue is to adapt the rules to the new guidelines of the world health organization. that's not a problem. however, the opportunity is being taken to give the commission the power to set the limit values itself. i think that this is a task which should be left to the legislator. since there are no adequate means of control of the commission by the european parliament, and even less of accountability, i reject the further undermining of the democratic principle, which is already weak at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the financial regulation for the general budget of the union. my principles are: thrift with tax money, transparency and efficiency. all this is very well balanced in this report, thanks also to the efforts of the experts in my group.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union. the report aims to ensure that eu funds are used in a transparent, efficient and appropriate manner. it also sets out important changes to the financial regulation, which are necessary, inter alia, to take account of the new directive on public procurement and concession contracts.
in writing. ‒ in the report we proposed to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union as follows: new provisions are to be introduced, such as market consultancy, the new innovation partnership as a procedure, the introduction of compliance with environmental, social and labour law as an essential condition, the evaluation of the criteria in no particular order, a pricing methodology based on the most economically advantageous offer. in addition, concessions for works and services are introduced for the first time in the financial regulation and are subject to the same types of procedures as public contracts. the reasons for exclusion and the possibility of the remedies concerned shall be clearly stated. exclusions are clearly separated from rejection of a particular procedure to avoid confusion. the purpose of the system is to ensure the early detection and prevention of risks and the publication of information on an excluded economic operator, in order to protect the interests of the eu. i have therefore voted in favour of this report. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ in the report we proposed to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union as follows: new provisions are to be introduced, such as market consultancy, the new innovation partnership as a procedure, the introduction of compliance with environmental, social and labour law as an essential condition, the evaluation of the criteria in no particular order, a pricing methodology based on the most economically advantageous offer. in addition, concessions for works and services are introduced for the first time in the financial regulation and are subject to the same types of procedures as public contracts. the reasons for exclusion and the possibility of the remedies concerned shall be clearly stated. exclusions are clearly separated from rejection of a particular procedure to avoid confusion. the purpose of the system is to ensure the early detection and prevention of risks and the publication of information on an excluded economic operator, in order to protect the interests of the eu. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the report we proposed to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union as follows: new provisions are to be introduced, such as market consultancy, the new innovation partnership as a procedure, the introduction of compliance with environmental, social and labour law as an essential condition, the evaluation of the criteria in no particular order, a pricing methodology based on the most economically advantageous offer. in addition, concessions for works and services are introduced for the first time in the financial regulation and are subject to the same types of procedures as public contracts. the reasons for exclusion and the possibility of the remedies concerned shall be clearly stated. exclusions are clearly separated from rejection of a particular procedure to avoid confusion. the purpose of the system is to ensure the early detection and prevention of risks and the publication of information on an excluded economic operator, in order to protect the interests of the eu. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in the report we proposed to amend regulation (eu, euratom) no 966/2012 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the union as follows: new provisions are to be introduced, such as market consultancy, the new innovation partnership as a procedure, the introduction of compliance with environmental, social and labour law as an essential condition, the evaluation of the criteria in no particular order, a pricing methodology based on the most economically advantageous offer. in addition, concessions for works and services are introduced for the first time in the financial regulation and are subject to the same types of procedures as public contracts. the reasons for exclusion and the possibility of the remedies concerned shall be clearly stated. exclusions are clearly separated from rejection of a particular procedure to avoid confusion. the purpose of the system is to ensure the early detection and prevention of risks and the publication of information on an excluded economic operator, in order to protect the interests of the eu. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the problem with the eu is that it will soon have used up the money of its citizens. in order to facilitate the protection of the financial interests of the citizens of the member states in the overall management of the union's funds, this resolution lays down the conditions for drawing up and implementing the general budget in order to ensure economic and effective budgetary management, control and protection of the union's financial interests and increased transparency. i agree with that.
the next item is the debate on the statements by mr françois hollande, president of the french republic, and mrs angela merkel, chancellor of the federal republic of germany, on the current situation in the european union (2015/2878 ((rsp)).
mr president of the french republic, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me, on behalf of the european parliament, mr president, to express our condolences and solidarity with you after the floods which caused the death of 20 french and european people and devastated the alpes-maritimes last weekend. our thoughts are with the victims and their families.
mr president of the republic, madam chancellor, i welcome you both to the european parliament. the fact that you - the french president and the german chancellor - are speaking together today about the future of europe in the european parliament in strasbourg, the symbol of franco-german reconciliation, and in this house of european democracy is certainly a historic moment. for centuries, your two countries, germany and france, were arch enemies, trapped in a spiral of war, defeat, humiliation and revenge. it was only after millions of lives had been lost and europe had been devastated that the leaders of our two countries, charles de gaulle and konrad adenauer, succeeded in bringing about reconciliation between germany and france. this was a step towards peace in europe - a peace from which we all benefit to this day. without the reconciliation between germany and france, europe could not have grown. but one thing is certain: without european unification, this franco-german friendship would never have existed in its present form. millions of people have found friends and homes in each other's countries through the exchange between our countries.
mr president of the french republic, madam chancellor, you are the first heads of government from your countries to speak together in this house since helmut kohl and françois mitterrand spoke in the european parliament 26 years ago. we welcome it, and it is essential, in these difficult times, difficult times for europe, when unprecedented challenges await us, that you have come to strasbourg to debate with us, the representatives of the peoples. the last few decades have taught us that when franco-german cooperation fails, the whole of europe suffers. it was not good understanding or unity that brought europe forward but contradictory ideas and divergent opinions, because, once france and germany agree, the negotiations, however tough, usually lead to a good compromise that takes advantage of the strengths of both for the benefit of all the partners and the union as a whole. that is why, mr president, madam chancellor, we are now anxious to hear what your ideas are and what impetus you intend to give to our common future. i give the floor to the president of the french republic, françois hollande.
president of the french republic. mr president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz, i thank you for your invitation and for the words you have spoken in respect of the victims of the weather in the south of france. mr president of the european commission, madam chancellor, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, it is true that the president of the french republic and the chancellor of the federal republic of germany speaking together before the european parliament is an exceptional event, but at the same time it is not without precedent. you recalled that 26 years ago, almost on the same day, helmut kohl and françois mitterrand were addressing the european parliamentarians right here. at that time, a great wind of freedom was blowing across the continent. he broke down walls, freed peoples, gave nations hope. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. and it is the whole of europe that has thus been built up with considerable hope. the common conviction of françois mitterrand and helmut kohl was to build a political union of europe, thus extending the mandate of the founders, to create a vast single market with social rules, and to carry the project of a common currency. all this had to be part of the same process and be carried out with the same determination. today, 26 years later, chancellor angela merkel and i are addressing you. firstly, because it is the 25th anniversary of german reunification, but above all because europe is experiencing new tragedies which pose new challenges to our continent. in fact, for years europe has been facing a succession of crises: the financial crisis, which originated outside our continent but has spread and has caused an economic crisis from which we are barely emerging and a social crisis, with millions of young people out of work. now, this is a humanitarian crisis that we are facing with an influx of refugees, caused by the destabilization of entire regions in the middle east, in africa, resulting from armed conflict and with the resurgence of religious hatred. i am not forgetting the security crisis, with a war not so far away, on the borders of europe, in ukraine, and then also the terrorist attacks that have affected several countries of our continent, including my own. with every crisis, fears are manifested. you must live with fear, but you must not live dominated by fear. nevertheless, there is a temptation to withdraw nationally whenever there is a test. but nothing is more futile than trying to escape alone, to hide, to take shelter when major events are happening around the world. we must speak from experience, as history tells us and confirms. these questions may be sincere, but they cannot condemn europe to a state of frivolity and impotence. on the contrary, they justify an offensive europe, capable of both ensuring the protection due to its citizens and maintaining its position in accordance with its interests and values, values which have justified the unification of our continent. there is therefore no other solution than a strong europe to guarantee our own sovereignty. in recent years, in recent months, france and germany have wanted to react together to the trials we have been going through in the last period. we have responded by affirming simple and clear principles: solidarity, responsibility and firmness. solidarity in the face of terrorism, because every attack in one of our countries is directed against the whole of europe: its ideals, its culture, its way of life. it is the soul of our continent. and i thank the heads of state or government, but also many members of the european parliament who met in paris on 11 january to show their solidarity and their commitment to freedom, to what we stand for, to defend us against terrorism which seeks to destroy the very cement that unites us. (applause) i would like to thank solidarity with the refugees who are victims of the convulsions in the middle east and the tragedies in africa. solidarity with the european states, which are the first to be pressed by this because they are our borders. solidarity with neighbouring countries in conflict zones, which are hosting large numbers of refugees. solidarity with africa, which is fighting for its development and precisely to avoid population movements. let's face it, you know? we are facing the exceptional arrival of women and men since the beginning of the year. 600,000, i think it was. many have fled war and massacre, others seek a better life. all of them have endured terrible conditions, handed over to unscrupulous traffickers. too many have died in appalling conditions. we now know a number of their faces. europe has been working to save lives, firstly by fighting criminal networks through frontex operations. but i am happy to say that europe has been slow to understand that the tragedies in the middle east and africa cannot be without consequences for it. europe has not measured the hope it has given and will give for a long time in the face of the despair of those who, since the night that has opened for them for too long, are waiting for hope, for light. europe has not given enough aid to countries which, however, were hosting ever-growing populations in camps. it is therefore urgent that it should organise itself in a way that is worthy of its tradition of asylum and to organise the return of those who cannot be given a permanent home here. europe, together with the european commission - and i welcome president juncker here - has put together an overall plan to support italy and greece, which are at the forefront and cannot be left alone in the responsibility; to help the balkan countries which also experience particularly difficult population transits; the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. but the trade-off is that we can help turkey if we want them to help us, and make sure that these refugees, whether they're in the camps or in the population, can work, can feed their children, can have a future. if we don't, then they will, inexorably, they will. we must also set up reception and identification centres. this is the essential condition for our borders to be respected. finally, we must allocate asylum seekers among the member states. we did that, not without fault, but we did it. one hundred and sixty thousand. and we will have to make sure that the commitments that have been made are properly implemented. it is each of these elements that the plan must now implement with the greatest speed. these are the principles: solidarity, responsibility. the same principles have prevailed in dealing with the situation in greece. the negotiations were laborious. we have played our part in this, angela merkel and i, together with the european commission and all the member states. these talks could have failed. it would have been more than a failure, it would have been an abandonment. the abandonment of a country whose culture and civilization still illuminate us. it would have been the first breach in the integrity of the eurozone, and other countries would have been under pressure. and then, it would have been a resignation to our mutual responsibilities, european responsibilities, responsibilities of the greek government. the negotiations resulted in a comprehensive reform programme and new financial support. i hope that this will now be translated into a discussion on debt service. it's part of the overall resolution. alexis tsipras, the greek prime minister, was brave and wanted his people to be consulted after the agreement was reached. respect for democracy - and i say this here, also in the place of european democracy - is never contradictory to respect for the common rules: responsibility, solidarity. it's always the same principles. (applause) i would like to thank we must also demonstrate responsibility against terrorism. vigilance must be a factor, but it will not be enough. we must equip ourselves with the instruments necessary for the work of the security services, while respecting the freedoms. france has passed a law to be able to better know the activities and track the terrorists. europe must also play its part, and i am thinking here of the european pnr, which has been delayed for too long. i ask, as much as possible, that the european parliament should be able to adopt this text, which is indispensable if we are to act. (applause) i would like to thank europe also has a duty to be firm. in ukraine, we have had to respond to a flagrant violation of international law and prevent a war on the doorstep of our continent. the europeans have shown unity, the twenty-eight, in implementing sanctions and there have been debates, legitimate debates, on the effectiveness and duration of this sanctions mechanism. germany and france have been particularly committed to concluding and implementing the minsk agreements. just last week, angela merkel and i, together with the russian and ukrainian presidents, in the so-called 'normandy format', ensured that not only the minsk agreements were respected, but that further processes of separation were avoided. and in this respect, this format, this method and this pressure, exercised on behalf of the whole of europe, have been particularly effective since the elections that the separatists had planned to organise in mid-october were postponed, and the minsk process was able to continue and the small arms were able to be withdrawn, soon the heavy weapons, and the war stopped, without peace having yet returned. we are able to do this in the name of europe, for europe and i would also say in the interests of the world, because we are prepared to show firmness, responsibility and solidarity. we are also firm in our approach to the syrian tragedy. it concerns all of us because daesh and the jihadists are angry with what we stand for. it concerns europe because the regime of bashar al-assad has created and continues to fuel this disaster. even today, he bombs, he kills, he slaughters. yes, what is happening in syria concerns europe because what is happening there will determine for a long time the balances in the region, in the entire middle east region. and if we allow religious clashes, sometimes between shiites and sunnis, often, even still, for a few months or a few years to escalate, we cannot think that we are safe. it will be an all-out war, a war that may involve our own territories as well. then we must act. france has assumed its military responsibilities in the face of the threat. the whole of europe must be involved in humanitarian, political and diplomatic matters. we must build in syria, with all those who can contribute, a political future that gives the syrian people an alternative to bashar or daesh. it is our duty to the syrians and it is in our interest as europeans. i therefore call on all of europe to press for this political transition to take place. and let us know, whatever the positions here, that it will not be possible to bring together the opposition - i am talking about the moderate, democratic opposition - with the executioner of the syrian people. it will take continuous action to bring together all the nations that really want a solution, namely russia, iran, the gulf countries, of course, the united states and europe, and europe so that we can achieve that political solution. to sum up my point, as i said, we will have to show a lot of solidarity towards others. that is why cooperation with african countries is essential. we shall soon have the valletta summit in november between africa and europe. it is by addressing the root causes of the problems that the initial applicants, and there are many of them in africa, can be persuaded to stay in their region. it is up to us to provide them with the conditions for living there. we have discussed several subjects which concern europe and, in fact, we are having the same debate. it exists here, it exists in every one of our countries. it's the debate between sovereignty and sovereignty. sovereignty in each country or sovereignty for europe. it's the debate between renunciation and reinforcement, between division and union. the debate is not between less europe and more europe, it is between the affirmation of europe and the end of europe. yes, the end of europe. that is, the return to national borders, the dismantling of community policies, the abandonment of the euro. (protests from certain groups) (applause from the centre and the right) i see, mr president, that the debate is taking place here too. françois mitterrand, less than 26 years ago, at the time he left office, had come before the european parliament to speak, to deliver what he thought were the lessons of his own experience and the lessons of history. he said that nationalism was war. his warning is still valid today. (applause) but i'll add, a codicil or a complement. sovereigntism is declinism. it is also dangerous not to give hope to a population, not to build something together in the name of national retreat, with no future in the face of hardship. i am convinced that if we do not go further, then we will not only stop but we will go backwards. and that will be the end of the european project. and that is why i propose that economic and monetary union, and within it the euro area, can be consolidated and strengthened. consolidated and strengthened to coordinate our policies, to promote convergence, to achieve fiscal harmonization, to combat fiscal and social dumping, to invest more even beyond what we are doing with the juncker plan. institutional choices will be needed to govern the euro area, to enforce the rules, to ensure that solidarity can benefit everyone. these choices will bind the volunteering states. the european parliament will exercise its control and ensure the overall coherence of a europe which will progress along the lines of differentiated integration. we also need to strengthen the so-called schengen area. it would be a tragic mistake to call into question the free movement of persons by returning to internal frontiers. (applause) but to claim that schengen, as it currently operates, will be able to cope with the pressures on its perimeter would be another mistake. the effective control of the union's external borders requires increased assistance to the border states, the states concerned and the setting up of a european border guard and coast guard corps, as proposed by the president of the european commission. we must also define a more coherent asylum policy, which involves a common list of safe countries of origin, the approximation of procedures, and the convergence of the rights and conditions of those who are granted protection. in other words, a genuine common asylum system within the european union itself. on all these issues, we must make the choice, i repeat, to go forward rather than backwards, which would lead us back to impotence. we still need to make this courageous choice, and we will need to do so at the paris climate conference next december. i welcome the commitments of europe in the framework of this conference because they have been decisive in bringing china, the united states and many others towards the prospect of an agreement. it is possible! it must be as ambitious as the need will make it. too many countries have not yet submitted their contributions. and we europeans ourselves must be able to set up a large carbon market to direct investment towards the best technologies. and it's up to you to make choices accordingly. i want to commend the role of the european parliament in the climate negotiations and, as long as you can, support the efforts of the countries, yourselves and the whole of europe, so that we can have an agreement. we shall also have this ambition in the field of financing. it's very important that we can raise the $100 billion needed for energy transition in the most vulnerable countries or developing countries. we're not there yet. we have two months to achieve this and, if there is no agreement, let us be aware of the catastrophe, let us be aware of what our responsibility would be for future generations. let us realize that there will be no new conference to decide this. there's a time when you have to make a choice, make a decision, make a commitment. it is up to the governments, yes, first of all the european governments, and those who will be at the paris conference, to live up to the responsibility you have entrusted to us. i hope to return to the european parliament one day with at least this pride, not simply of having been the host of a conference in paris, but of having been there on the day when the states of the world, supported by local authorities from all over the planet, who will also be represented, with all the associations, organizations, companies, trade unions, will have been able, for the coming decades, to resolve a large part of the climate issue. this is a must-see for our generation. (applause) i would like to thank we must also have the same ambition and the same will for our agriculture, for food security and for the quality of our products. and i ask that, in the context of the crisis we are experiencing in a number of our products, that at the level of the commission, at the level of the member states and at the level of parliament, we can provide the support that is indispensable to protect our products and to help the most vulnerable. since i am speaking of the trade agreement, i want to refer to the one we are discussing with the united states. france wants these negotiations to be a success and wants guarantees to be given, both for the identification of products, for designations of origin, for reciprocity, for transparency and, more broadly, for the mechanisms for the protection of investments, in particular, for the settlement of disputes. we must have these guarantees if we are to have an agreement which can be useful to the economies. i want to conclude with a thought that concerns us all. i cannot imagine that there are any members of this house who are not european, who are not aware that we belong to the same whole, that we are bound by so many common values, that europe has a history to share and a future to commit to. so 25 years after the continent has been reunited, we still face challenges and therefore choices. we have an emergency to respond to. it is here, and no one can turn a blind eye to the realities of the world. no one is! there are no borders that will be worth, no barbed wire to protect us from threats from outside. it's up to us to make the decisions. we must respond to the urgency and keep the long-term course of a federation of states which must remain our horizon. and somehow, 25 years later, it is another unification that must be made: that of projects, that of peoples, that of common interests, with the only question: do we want to return to the old order, the order of the twentieth century, and all that it entailed? or do we want to live in a coherent, voluntary whole for the next century? i have made my choice, it is europe's! i did so with the will, on each issue, to seek the highest possible compromises and that was the meaning of the cooperation we established with angela merkel and germany to be with our partners to meet the challenges of the century. (applause from the centre and the right)
federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union, and it is not surprising that the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the union. in november 1989 a french president and a german chancellor spoke together for the last time before the european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. both felt the upheavals looming in germany and europe. and both of them seemed deeply moved by these upheavals. the two sides made clear their commitment to finding common european answers. the unification of germany was eventually followed by the unification of europe. and today we can look back with great gratitude and a certain pride on the historic achievement that we europeans have made in bringing our continent together. we take a free and united europe for granted today. but this historic achievement required a lot of physical effort back then. there were fears and scepticism in the old member states, for example, that the number of member states in the european union would almost double. many saw the free movement of millions of new eu citizens as a threat to their jobs. new decision-making structures had to be developed. european funding had to be redistributed to the new member states. today we see that this effort has been worthwhile for all of us. it has not made us less, but it has made us more prosperous. it has helped us to have more freedom, not less. it has helped us not to have less diversity, but to have more diversity. (applause from the centre) in short, it has helped us to create more europe. because we europeans have learned in our history to make the most of our diversity. and the quality that enables us to do that, that enables us to be free in responsibility, is tolerance. and she is a valuable asset. the overcoming of the east-west divide has proved to be a gigantic success story. it shows us what we europeans are capable of if we are willing, if we are courageous and if we stick together. it also shows that there is no reason to be discouraged by setbacks, which of course come and go. in a word, it shows us what is possible. the european parliament has been a great help to the commission in its efforts to bring about a change in the international financial system, and it is not surprising that the commission has been able to take part in the negotiations on the european monetary system. the commission has already made a number of proposals. but by doing it together, we have been able to secure the cohesion of the eurozone. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, today, the french president, françois hollande, and i are speaking to you. mr president, thank you for this invitation. we are speaking at a time when europe is once again facing a major challenge. and i say it is a test of historical proportions. these are the many, many people who are taking the very dangerous roads to europe to seek refuge here. people coming across the mediterranean to italy, or across the aegean from turkey to greece. people fleeing terrible civil wars, particularly the war in syria, which has already claimed more than 250,000 lives and made more than ten million people refugees. refugees from iraq, refugees coming to us from africa via unstable libya. and they all had to see that our diplomatic and political efforts and those of our transatlantic allies have not brought peace to syria so far. the strengthening of the terrorist organisation is in iraq and syria could not be prevented. the power vacuum in libya is not yet filled. the european union must not allow the people of the middle east to be forced to live in fear of bombs and terrorism, but must give them a chance to live in dignity in their own country. (applause from the centre) that's the message for today. it will require a decisive contribution from europe to the solution of these crises, in the fight against war and expulsion, terrorism and political persecution, poverty and lack of prospects. germany and france have tried to resolve the terrible conflict between russia and ukraine with this determination. we have seen the annexation of crimea, we have seen the destabilisation of eastern ukraine, and i say quite frankly: fortunately we have acted together in europe. we have collectively imposed sanctions and said that this is a violation of our principles and we will not allow it. (applause from the centre) but now we are working to resolve this conflict in the normandy format, and just last friday we had talks in france - in paris - that give us hope that at least the ceasefire could hold. the elections in donetsk and lugansk have been postponed. but, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of many conflicts. i am convinced that we must focus our foreign and development policies much more on resolving conflicts and tackling the causes of displacement. (applause from the centre) we will also have to commit ourselves financially much more than we do today. the decisions needed to achieve this must be taken quickly. all this will change europe again. just as europe changed dramatically after the upheavals in central and eastern europe 25 years ago. we will of course continue to work on improving our competitiveness. we will of course be dealing with the digitisation of our societies, with sustainable development, with a common energy policy, with free trade agreements with other countries in accordance with our principles. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market. and to do that we must also improve economic policy coordination in the eurozone and on that basis correct the founding errors of european economic and monetary union. and germany and france will contribute to this. (applause from the centre) but the sheer number of refugees is changing europe's agenda. it is also changing it, and in a lasting way, because it is challenging our values and interests as europeans and globally in a particular way. if the refugee crisis is to be managed and contained as a result, then there is no way around the need to act where the flight and expulsion are caused. it takes time, patience and a long breath, that goes without saying. we in europe - we are experiencing this in these months - are closely linked to global events, and very directly - whether we like it or not. we can no longer disconnect from global events. never since world war ii have so many people been displaced as today - some sixty million. this one number alone illustrates the full scope of the problem. and no one leaves their home country lightly, not even those who do so for economic reasons. (applause from the centre) but we also need to tell them that they can't stay with us so that we can really help those who really need our protection from war and persecution. (applause from the centre) to do this, we need a political process to resolve the crisis in syria, involving all regional and international actors, with a stronger european role. we must help the neighbouring countries of syria to get a proper perspective for the millions of refugees. europe has acted here. the european commission has put forward proposals for better financial provision - i thank parliament for supporting this - and the national governments must do their part. and turkey is playing a key role. she's our next-door neighbor. it is the starting point of irregular migration. turkey is doing extraordinary things for more than two million refugees. but it needs our support even more in providing food, in sheltering refugees, in securing the borders, in fighting against smugglers. the dialogue on migration policy that the european commission has started with turkey is therefore of great importance. and germany will support the commission's efforts bilaterally. equally important are all efforts in libya to form a unity government. europe supports the efforts of un envoy león. the whole of the european union is called upon to tackle this task. we must not be tempted to fall back on nation-state action in the refugee crisis - quite the contrary! (applause from the centre) we need more europe now! we need more than ever the courage and the cohesion that europe has always shown when it was needed. germany and france are ready to do so. and we agree with the president of the european commission, who has put many important proposals on the table which we must now implement consistently. we agree with the president of the european council, who is very committed to improving cooperation with countries of origin and transit. and we agree with the european parliament, which in its resolution of 10 september recalled that national approaches alone are not the solution to the refugee crisis. mr president, we also thank you for the unconventional, quick decisions. that was important. (applause from the centre) because only together can europe succeed in reducing the global causes of flight and displacement. only together can we effectively combat criminal trafficking gangs. only together will we be able to better protect the external borders of the european union and not jeopardise a europe without internal borders by operating jointly hotspots. i would like to say that the protection of the external borders will also be successful only if we do something in our neighbourhood to deal with the many crises that are taking place on our doorstep. (applause from the centre) ladies and gentlemen, only together will we be able to agree eu-wide return agreements to actually bring those who have no prospect of staying back to their home countries. only together can we achieve a fair and equitable distribution of refugees among all member states. the first step has been taken and i thank parliament, or the majority, for its position. let 's face it . the dublin procedure in its present form is obsolete in practice. it was indeed well-intentioned - no doubt - but the bottom line is that it has proved unsustainable in the face of the challenge at our external borders. i am therefore calling for a new approach to fairness and solidarity in burden sharing. i welcome the work of the commission and i think it is good that germany and france are on the same page. and only together will we succeed in the enormous task of integration that still lies ahead. it includes the fact that we in europe can rightly expect people who come to us to integrate into our societies. this requires following the rules as well as learning the language. but, conversely, we too have a duty to treat with respect those who come to us out of necessity, to see them as human beings and not as some anonymous mass, regardless of whether they have a prospect of staying or not. (applause from the centre) that is why it is so important that the minimum humanitarian standards we have agreed on for the accommodation and care of refugees and for the conduct of asylum procedures are respected. we owe it to them, to the refugees, and to ourselves. because europe is a community of values, a community of law and responsibility, and that means for me that we must be guided by the values we have enshrined in the european treaties: human dignity, the rule of law, tolerance, respect for minorities and solidarity. for me, this means that pan-european challenges cannot be solved by a few member states alone, but by all of us together. we must recognize: even if we tried to completely shut ourselves off, even if we did it knowingly at the cost of people coming to harm at our borders, it wouldn't do anyone any good. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. closure and isolation in the internet age is an illusion. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if we ignore this, we are betraying ourselves no more and no less. (applause from the centre) if we remember this, we will be able to pass this historic test and, more importantly, emerge from this crisis stronger than when we entered it. we will then be able to present our values and interests convincingly on a global scale. and that is what is expected of us outside europe. ladies and gentlemen, the reasons why people leave their homes are all too familiar to us from our own european history. for centuries, our continent has been not a destination but, above all, a point of departure for flight, expulsion and migration. jean-claude juncker made a powerful reference to this in his state of the union address. today europe is a place where many people from all over the world place their hopes and aspirations, a place that makes people dream. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. we must be responsible for the attraction of europe. and that means we need to do more to care for those in need in our neighborhoods today. if we see this challenge as our common european and global challenge, we will also be able to recognise and exploit the economic and social opportunities of this trial. and then we will see that, by the way, the opportunities are greater than the risks. we will continue to have to do a lot of persuasion work for our europe. i am pleased that after centuries of war and hatred between our two peoples, dear françois hollande, we are now fighting together for these same goals. (applause from the centre) i invite you all to join me in this house in doing this work of persuasion for our europe. each member of parliament plays an important role in this. in your home countries, in your constituencies, to the public throughout europe. let us work together to achieve this, as helmut kohl proposed in 1989 in this european parliament in view of the upheavals in central and eastern europe. i quote him: 'with wisdom and with moderation, with ingenuity and flexibility'. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union. twenty-five years ago, your predecessors here in the european parliament made a commitment that your two peoples stood for a democratic europe. today you renewed that commitment by your presence. the franco-german friendship, the responsibility of your two peoples and the promise that france and germany will continue to see their future in a democratic europe for decades to come: i would like to begin by thanking you for that. (applause from the centre) twenty-five years ago, this continent was in the throes of the collapse of communism. today we face the refugee problem as a challenge. if we have big tasks, we find guidance in our charter of fundamental rights. this is the place where the ideas, the experiences that we europeans have made in our history, are concentrated. it says: "the right to asylum is granted in accordance with the geneva refugee convention". and it says: "collective expulsions are not permitted". ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about people. and that is why this charter of fundamental rights is a guide for us. we are talking about individuals. if turkey, jordan and lebanon - which are sometimes poor countries - are able to offer shelter to millions of people fleeing civil war, then rich europe must also be able to make this effort. we need courage, we need encouragement for this task that lies ahead of us. i would like to thank germany in particular and you, madam chancellor, for encouraging the people on this issue. thank you for that. (applause from the centre) we have a great deal of work to do in terms of content. first of all, it is important to take the fears of the citizens seriously, which are of course also there. one of the answers we can give to people is that we are already acting. we're not just talking, we are acting. who would have thought that today german and french soldiers are on the mediterranean sea, saving lives? who would have thought a few months ago that we could agree on a quota of 160,000 refugees? who would have thought that a few days ago the european council decided to protect the external borders properly and to carry out checks there? we are already acting! we in the european parliament - i cannot conceal this, even in the presence of the two heads of state - are disappointed by the speed of the european council and the members of the council in the council of ministers of the interior: we would like more speed. the commission has already put forward proposals in the spring, and we in the european parliament have already signalled our support. and unfortunately, we were not able to overcome national egoism, which unfortunately exists, fast enough. it's the deed that counts! we must act together. the considerations you have put forward, mr president hollande, on the further development of, for example, the establishment of a european border guard, must now be adopted by the heads of state or government so that the commission can have the backing it needs to carry out its work. we are faced with enormous challenges. we talked about migration, we talked about the economy, we talked about the fight against terrorism. we have two political realities, which we also find in this european parliament. one is the partisan debate, the normal, proper partisan debate in democracy about the right way, and then the vote, which then brings the result. and the second reality is that there are political forces on the continent that are scaring people, that want to destroy something, that want to destroy something, which is what previous generations of elected politicians have spent decades building. these are forces that describe problems, but have no idea how to solve problems. this political reality is unfortunately increasing; the european union is not a party to the treaty. what's the answer? the answer is leadership, courageous leadership. just like previous generations of politicians have done. without political leadership we would not have had the eastern enlargement, without political leadership we would not have abolished border controls, we would not have built a currency, and we would not have the prosperity that the single market guarantees us. that is why today is once again the time for political leadership. it's been 26 years since your predecessors last visited. and yet we can say with pride: we are strong, we are great as a continent, what has been achieved in the last 26 years! and that's the story we need to continue. as the two heads of state of the two great peoples of europe, please show ambition! we know that we need a strengthening, a strengthening of the euro zone, a deepening of the euro zone, more capacity for foreign policy action. it is not possible for a country to veto entire sanctions decisions. we need more military capability, and everyone knows that. we would be better off spending the money of the citizens of this european union if we spent it together. i therefore ask you to have the courage to take europe forward. that is the task of the heads of state or government. and finally, why is it urgent? why does it have to happen soon? because the world isn't waiting for us. while we're dealing with greece, we've had a major crash in the chinese stock market. it is there that the prosperity of the world of tomorrow is decided. as we speak about migration, a trans-pacific free trade agreement is being finalized in atlanta, reorganizing 40 percent of world trade. the world is not waiting for our internal debates! that is why europe must be committed. (applause from the centre) jean-claude juncker said here a few days ago: there is too little europe, and there is too little union. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. we're counting on your courage. let us stand up to the scarecrows! the commission is not alone. create more union!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. twenty-five years ago, your predecessors chancellor kohl and president mitterrand took joint initiatives to promote the process of european integration, against the background of the east european democratic movement. these were concrete proposals. we saw them on the table, i checked them myself. but times have changed. in your capacity, you are seen by many as the representative of the old europe that has failed. and, mrs merkel, i cannot deny you that you bear a significant responsibility for the fact that the community method, for example, has been replaced by the union method. this has contributed to the division within the european union into strong - economically strong, politically strong - and weak - politically weak and economically weak - countries. they both say that the eu has brought more prosperity. i'm not going to. recently, the eu has brought more poverty to the south and the division of the eu. an eu in which the finance ministers of the eurogroup dictate how solidarity and living conditions are to be defined is rejected by the people. the european union is not even a façade democracy. have you ever wondered why, despite the euro group's relentless blackmail, the people of greece are once again trusting syriza and tsipras and not those who are part of the old system and therefore part of the old europe? the memoranda concerned the rescue of german, french and dutch banks. the winners of the so-called euro rescue packages are these countries. that is why we are asking you to take initiatives to cut the debt. and the profits from the crisis should go to a fund to fight poverty in the crisis countries. i could also imagine a debt relief for investments in renewable energy and measures to combat climate change. it is a moral and legal duty to accept refugees with dignity. this is not the practice in the eu. it is high time to put dublin ad acta and develop a common european asylum/migration policy that really deserves the name. they said, "tell those who cannot stay, to return to their safe countries of origin". so that includes kosovo, turkey. will eritrea be included in the future? i'd like to know that for sure. it is logical and reasonable to determine the secondary inclusion by population and economic power in the countries. these proposals are on the table. but the way in which greece is dealt with, and the way in which refugees are dealt with, has brought home to us this, this very failure of the european union. the european union is not a community of equals. the european values cannot be defended under the sword of austerity dictates. i want that clear. so the austerity policy, the austerity policy at the expense of certain groups of the population, must stop. the result is a retreat into nationalist and xenophobic forces, which are on the rise, not only in france and germany. in germany, 200 refugee shelters have already burned this year. that's why it's so encouraging to see so many people on the other side who are willing to help, who want to help, who want to do something. but we - the eu and politics - must encourage them, not leave them alone. that's how the community breaks down! i'd like to ask you, yes, perhaps you both wanted to invoke the old axle again, but the franco-german engine stutters. what now, mrs merkel and mr hollande? your speeches should encourage. you have touched on many important issues. but your speech also lacked any prospect of greater democracy and of social union within the european union. this is a huge mistake. please accept this challenge.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i was pleased that you decided to come to us, to the european parliament, to discuss the very difficult situation in which the european union has found itself, not only with the refugee crisis, but also with the situation in which we have been stuck for some time. guy verhofstadt has spoken of the polyform crisis. i would just say in good german, we have a whole series of crises that we talk about all the time. and we will not get any further if, whenever a new, major escalation occurs, as is the case now with the refugees, we abandon what we had in hand and did not finish. i believe that if you want to build confidence in the european union, in its ability to act - and i really hope that you do - then you must go back to what has been left behind in terms of the stability of the single currency. if you follow the debates in the european parliament in earnest, you will find that we have long held, by a large majority, that a common currency cannot function sustainably and permanently without a common fiscal and economic policy, without a government in this area. and i think that you two - mrs merkel and mr hollande - are the right people to help us get out of this situation, because the french have recently started this again. the french had to move for a long time in the matter of sovereignty. but the germans must also move in their fixation on the debt problem and monetary stability alone. there are two worlds that need to be brought together, and if we do not succeed in this, we will not succeed in achieving stability within, and we will never be able to deal with the major crises that are growing up around us in the way that is actually expected of a europe that is still strong. (applause from the centre) mrs merkel, i was at the train station in budapest keleti when you in germany made the decision that dublin was no longer working. i thought it was just as great as the people who had been put in a crazy situation by viktor orbán at the station. i think it is right that you have been pressed in this situation and then - supported by austria, but also sweden and some others - have said that we have to re-establish our refugee policy. i have now heard that you and françois hollande believe that what our commission president juncker said in his state of the european union speech are the lines that you now share for a new refugee and immigration policy in the european union. if we assume that european values and human rights should count, it is questionable to me if we now end up not controlling our external borders better but instead re-establishing the policy of closure and quasi-militarisation at our external borders. it's not working. we will not get out of these refugee tragedies that way. i also want to tell you that i think it is right to speak to president erdoğan because i know that we cannot solve all the problems of refugees from africa and asia here in our country. i think it is right to talk to him about turkey's contribution. but i think it's wrong not to address the fact that his escalation against the kurds is exacerbating the region's problems rather than solving them. the only way to improve the situation in turkey is to put an end to the internal escalation and to persuade president erdoğan to return to the path of democracy in turkey. let me say one more thing: it is uncertainty that has brought you here, mrs merkel, mr hollande. at the moment, hundreds of thousands of workers in the european union are fearful about their future. this is not just true of those directly employed by vw. this also applies to all those who work in the supplier industry, and not only in germany but in many european countries, including those outside the european union. this is the result of an incredible industrial scandal and a criminal energy at vw that has been scourged enough times. but i would like to take advantage of your presence here to tell you that the supposedly well-intentioned protection of the interests of the car industry, which you, in particular, as the well-known car chancellor, mrs merkel, have guaranteed - but on this matter mr sarkozy, and most recently mr hollande, have also repeatedly assured you - that this supposed extension of the interests of industry into european legislation when it comes to climate and the environment was wrong and that it was precisely this protection that has encouraged hybrids in companies like vw. the climate summit, mr hollande, to which we europeans are going anyway with a bag of tricks because our 2030 targets are not enough to achieve the 2°c target, must not be burdened by the fact that we are still standing by this old protectionism of the car industry. a new era must also be ushered in in the automobile industry.
federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i would like to thank the speakers who gave us the courage to take up the challenge. europe is always only able to function if we respect the opinion of others. we are 28 member states in the european council. germany and france can develop a common position. the good news is that we often have to go a long way to get to that common position. the essence of compromise is already present in any franco-german agreement. but of course, we only have an agreement if all 26 others are in. we are trying to absorb the impulses you give in the european parliament, the speakers who have given courage. on the other hand, we are also representatives of our national states, of our national parliaments. i therefore urge once again - and this is already working quite well in some cases - that we should also seek to establish contact with the national parliaments and the ideas expressed there, because without this bridge, even those in the council, who are of course accountable to their national parliaments, will not be able to move europe forward in a democratic way. that is why parliaments are so important. the treaty of lisbon has given the european parliament a new lease of life. secondly, i would like to point out that we as europe - if you have listened to the last speakers, you have to be careful not to get a little depressed - that we are also successful in europe. (applause from the centre) we have had successes, for example, in preparing the climate conference. the european decisions, which are also supported by the european parliament, give françois hollande the impetus to promote ambitious commitments at international level. and this cop 21 is being prepared very, very carefully, well and ambitiously, and we have a good chance, if we do this together, to achieve in paris what we have not yet been able to achieve in copenhagen. i ask everyone to cooperate, because that would be a good message to the international community and also something we can do to combat the causes of displacement. why do so many flee africa? because they don't have a chance, not only because of war and terrorism, but also because of hunger and poverty. that's why we have to do everything. and a good climate agreement is a contribution to preventing refugee crises. (applause from the centre) i would like to make just two comments. the first is that all those who have spoken of closing the border between germany and austria are invited to visit the german-austrian border. manfred weber may be able to show certain points of the border crossing. there is no question of closing a border. just in case you haven't heard, i wanted to point that out again. mrs. harms, i have a favor to ask of you. there are many unemployed in europe, and you yourself have spoken of the number of people who have jobs, particularly in the automobile industry. and something happened at vw that needs urgent clarification, where we need transparency and where i have the impression that the company does that as well. but please do not use this situation to do something which you might like to do because of your political convictions, namely to condemn the automobile as a whole, so to speak, and thus to put thousands and thousands of jobs in europe at risk! we shouldn't do that. (applause from the centre) mrs. harms shakes her head. then it's good, and then it's reasonable. we have too few jobs in europe rather than too many. but i take that for granted and i'm glad. i would like to thank you for this discussion and for welcoming us here as guests, and i would also like to say that i would like to continue to work with the european parliament. thank you very much. (applause from the centre)
president of the french republic. mr president, i would like to thank all those who took part in this debate, which was very enlightening in this respect. why are we here, the chancellor and myself? why both of us? because we'd be the most populous country in europe? it's not even true. because we'd be the major economies? i guess so. but because there were two wars in the last century between germany and france. and it was germany and france, in the wake of this tragedy, who wanted europe to be able to make a living from what the continent had suffered as horrors. that is why the leaders of our two countries, france and germany, have always wanted to take the initiative in new european constructions. that was the case with general de gaulle and konrad adenauer, and together the chancellor and i recalled what the elysée treaty had been. then it was françois mitterrand and helmut kohl - and not just them - who took europe to new heights. so that's why we're here, in fidelity to history and also to the responsibilities that must be ours. you have both wanted to talk about what the future of europe could be. this future must be that of a stronger europe. there are several ways, and they have been mentioned here in one way or another. there is the middle way, which we know, namely to stay there, with a europe of 28 which is not easy to manage, in which it is not easy to organise deliberation. i have had experience of this europe of 28 for three years now - less than chancellor merkel - but the decisions we take in the european council are unanimous decisions. even if france and germany were to agree - and that is still to be done - the other 26 would still have to be convinced. we decided on greece and the refugees as 28 people, not as two. we have taken responsibility for asylum as a group of 28 because we are europeans and we have values and principles, and no one can, by virtue of international conventions that go far beyond europe, forbid those who are fleeing, who are obliged to protect themselves, from being welcomed here in europe. those who refuse to do so would not only be failing to live up to their european dignity but also their duty to the international community. we are 28 and therefore there is a second possible way forward for this europe which is having difficulty in making its decisions: the way of strengthening. that is the one on which i think mrs merkel and i want to work with you. because nothing will be done without the european parliament. the way forward for strengthening the common foreign and security policy was mentioned by several speakers because, if there is no european policy in the face of what is happening in ukraine, in the face of what is happening in syria and the middle east, in the face of what is happening in palestine, also in the face of the great continents, the great powers, what nation - even france, for whom i have not only respect but whose greatness i also know - could decide for the rest of the world on its own? we need europe, and we need a europe that is much stronger than it is today, provided that it also takes on responsibilities. (applause) i would like to thank the first responsibility when we want to have a foreign policy - and it is not easy and i know that we can have debates here - is the common defence policy and if we want to be an independent power we must have this common defence policy. for the moment, it is often france that takes the initiative, that sends its armies, that sends to africa, to avoid the worst, a number of our soldiers. then europe joins us and all is well! because if there were no europe in mali, if there were no europe in central africa, there would still be massacres today. we therefore need this european security policy and therefore a defence policy. we need a common policy on migration and asylum. that's what we've explained here: a common asylum regime with a list of countries we consider safe; the same policy for turkey, the same policy to help countries like jordan, lebanon - i want to mention all of them - who are suffering; because a country like lebanon is hosting half of its population. we have a duty here to carry out this asylum policy, to take back those who, having come here for economic reasons, have no right to remain on our continent. we must do so with dignity and firmness and together. if we do not do it together, then what does the schengen area mean? mrs merkel was right to go back on the dublin agreement because we cannot ask the countries on europe's border to pay for all the others, because that would be unfair and because that would be unbearable. (applause) i would like to thank so if we do not want the in-between, which we have perhaps been living in for too many years, and if we do not want a stronger europe, then there is only one way. it was quoted, i heard mr farage say it. the only way forward for those who are not convinced of europe is to leave europe. just like that! there is no other way! this is a terrible one, but it is, in the end, the logical one: to leave europe, to leave the euro, to leave schengen, and even, if you can, to leave democracy! because sometimes, as i listen to you, i ask myself this question: do you really want to participate in a common space? (applause from the left) what i am calling for here is not the abandonment of sovereignty, but sovereignty! and sovereignty has nothing to do with sovereignty. european sovereignty means being able to decide for ourselves and to avoid a return to nationalism, populism and extremism which are forcing us today to go down a path we did not want to take! (applause from the centre and the right)
thank you very much, mr president. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you very much for this debate. mrs merkel, mr hollande, thank you very much for coming to the european parliament. you see, the place of vibrant democracy in europe is this chamber. (a woman puts a european emblem in the square in front of chancellor merkel.) my colleague has been trying to do this for hours. mrs. merkel, please don't be mad at me. i want to thank you both very much for your encouragement. and i would like to say to you, mr president hollande, that we thank you for your last remark. those who have been elected to this house thinking they can abuse the instruments of this house to destroy europe from within have had a lesson in democracy today. thank you for coming. (applause from the centre)
thank you for your comment. but the rules of procedure allow applause. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. the joint appearance of angela merkel and françois hollande sends an important message in these difficult times: if france and germany are united, we will overcome the great challenges! the problems are obvious. europe has shown in the past that we grow in response to the challenges we face. i therefore fully agree with the chancellor when she asks us all to do more for europe.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the adopted decision on the capital markets union package (2015/2767 ((rsp)).
thank you very much. thank you for the words you said before. some of what was said here before was really hard to bear.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the bank for international settlements and alan greenspan warn of new financial crises. the eu commission wants to reopen the casino with the capital markets union. banks and insurance companies should invest in infrastructure. the taxpayers pay the returns. the securitisation business - that is, the packaging of junk loans - is to be revived, instead of using american mortgages, for example, with european car loans. volkswagen sends his regards. the investment that europe so badly needs will not bring this about, because it is not liquidity that is lacking, but demand. companies only invest if they can find buyers. but they are not because of the cuts in public spending, wages and pensions in europe. small businesses in southern europe that do not get credit are not helped by the capital markets union. the financing of investment in europe depends on the banks. we're not the united states. our markets are more regional, our companies more medium-sized. there are different insolvency regimes. the access to the capital market is therefore too expensive for smes. and even in the united states, since the crisis, bank lending has been more dynamic than capital markets. europe needs serious banks instead of gambling houses that are too big to fail. that is why we should finally do our homework on banking structural reform, like a public investment programme. then europe will be invested again.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. first of all, let me say that the idea of a capital markets union is a good idea. we need more crossborder risk exposure, especially within the eurozone, so that when individual countries are facing problems, we do not have to unilaterally take on the burden of the capital markets. that's why the idea is right. it is also right if you want to create consumer-friendly products throughout europe. it is also right that small credit unions should be allowed throughout europe. the package contains real thoughts. however, the package is bound up with two false promises. firstly, with the false promise that it would make a substantial contribution to boosting investment in europe once again. it's just not right. look at the situation in the capital markets! the drama is great. even at the end of long terms, we have very low interest rates. we have a high savings rate in relevant parts of europe. and if we are to get this money into investment, we must make investment profitable, particularly in the sectors of the future. the commission has not yet launched an offensive on this project. if you want to fix the capital market, we need not just a capital markets union, but we need instruments to channel this capital into sustainable investment. i'm waiting for you to make an offensive. there is a second bias in this chapter, and that is the tone of it, as if we have created too much regulation. the fact is that we have made many of the rules we have created too complex and too bureaucratic, while other parts of the financial markets are still not properly regulated. in the shadow bank area, the promises to bring light to the darkness have not been fulfilled. i would therefore ask you to continue with the capital markets union, but not to stop there, but to solve the problems we still have in the financial markets in substance, so that there is no further aggravation of a crisis. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'd like to give you an example of what i find particularly problematic. small banks also have to rely on relatively complex rules for calculating liquidity and equity positions. but this is completely inappropriate for the business of a conservative and well-capitalized bank. so we need simple and hard rules for the smaller institutions, while we need complex and elaborate rules for the big banks. and we have not yet succeeded in establishing this distinction. the principle of proportionality is one of the main concerns i have with the european central bank, which is not keeping its own promises. and this house has to stay behind, too, for that to change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the idea of a capital markets union is in principle to be supported. however, i believe that some of the proposals contained in the action programme involve considerable risks. i am thinking, for example, of the fact that securitisations are to be made easier again, which was one of the main causes of the financial market crisis. so we have to be very careful. it is also true that in the context of the financial market crisis many banks have withdrawn to their home markets and thus no longer have the financial instruments that were available before. i also think it is right to draw up an impact study of the regulations in force. but if the purpose is to introduce over-regulation or deregulation through the back door, then we will be against it. and as far as financing of small and mediumsized enterprises is concerned, the most stable factor is a regional banking structure, because in the countries where we have it, small and mediumsized enterprises have few problems. the attempt by the european central bank to encourage investment with interest-free loans through cheap money has not helped anything in southern europe. it's a dead end. and that's why i think we shouldn't continue down this path. and in fact, in certain areas, greater europeanisation is needed. this includes bankruptcy law, shadow banking - that has already been mentioned - company law, tax law. mr hill has not put forward any proposals on this because, of course, that would be a step too far towards europeanisation, which he can hardly sell to the city of london. so, in principle, support, but with some reservations. i believe that we will end up examining the commission's proposals very closely and that the commission will have to give up if it goes too far.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i welcome the proposal made here on capital markets union to provide firms with more equity capital again. but we need to talk about why debt financing is so favored. first, the cost of equity must be deductible, as must the cost of debt. secondly, the subsidization of loans through the promotional banks must be stopped. thirdly, and this is very important, we must stop zero-weighting government bonds. government bonds are high-risk bonds, at least some of them, we know that today at the latest. fourthly, we must urgently talk about the unsecured credit system, because that is what leads to the low-interest environment that is partly responsible for the crises. all these credit subsidies are creating more debt than there is real savings. if we are to really get the economy back on its feet, we need more reforms than just the capital markets union.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! the capital markets union aims to remove the barriers which still exist between member states, particularly in the area of private credit. that is also true, because the credit crunch in smes is real. we believe that the capital markets union should also involve a re-examination of the bureaucratic burden - especially for small and medium-sized banks - and that what we need is a different culture in europe. we need more private capital. we need more risk-taking. venture capital is less prevalent in europe than in the us. part of that is regulation, of course. but it is also due to the lack of risk-taking and investment by our citizens. it is tragic that the stock markets have been gaining in recent years, but that they have been dominated by anglo-saxon investors, while our citizens complain about low interest rates. so we hope that these points will now be actively adapted and improved with the capital markets union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the capital markets union is also intended to safeguard monetary union. union means following common rules and standing up for each other. in this respect it is also a kind of liability partnership. the commission president juncker is calling for a common deposit guarantee system. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. in germany, savings banks and national banks are particularly resistant to this. the reserves are fed by the deposits of savers. the community's national insurance systems are therefore a cold expropriation of german savers. the german government has therefore so far rejected community integration but for how long? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the chancellor will eventually bow down. i therefore agree with hans-olaf henkel: ceterum censeo i believe that the euro is dividing europe and sowing discord. the euro must be abolished.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the capital markets union will open up capital throughout europe. i agree with that in principle. but i do not want to see home builders and families, small and mediumsized businesses and craft industries, or even small banks, being pushed into debt too quickly. let's create a capital market culture! let's promote the honest merchant and real values in the economy. i know young families, especially, who are building a house, need money. previously angela merkel was not yet chancellor there was a construction child benefit and a home allowance in germany. a real, honest family support. today, most families in europe cannot avoid taking out a loan. they need it, and all the more so do they need a capital markets union that is oriented towards the interests of the people, not the ideas of the investment bankers. we cannot be supplying banks with cheap money at 0.05% interest. it is not possible that bankers pay no transaction tax and at the same time we demand a disbursement of 8 to 12% from young families. that's not polite. this must be a matter for a capital markets union.
capital markets union means making it easier for businesses to obtain financing. simplified prospectus for public offerings, new impetus through securitised loans and solvency, new ideas for venture capital - this will have its positive effects. but securitization, ipo's, venture capital, that's just one side of the coin of a soundly funded economy. much depends on financing through the traditional credit market, especially for smes. are we really doing enough at this point? in greece, 67% of all bank loans are rejected, and unless there are lasting reforms, this will not change. a capital markets union without reforms is going to be a bust. what about small and mediumsized enterprises in italy, austria or germany? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the risk weighting of loans to smes under the basel criteria is increased. the ecb's idea of the beautiful name anna-kredit is also counterproductive. anna is my daughter, but what is happening now is not so pretty. for each loan above eur 25 000, the credit institutions are expected to provide 150 new data sets. this is the opposite of bureaucratic reduction. and now the european deposit guarantee: why also for institutions which already have protection schemes in the banking network? the tranquilizer for germany, liability alliances only with euro states where deposit insurance is proven. do you know how much confidence we have in these proven deposit guarantee schemes and, unfortunately, in the commission's checks on them? we must stop proposing things which undermine the financing culture of small credit institutions and thus weaken the financing base of smes. the capital markets union is first and foremost about trust. this includes national debt limits, this includes reforms, reliability and less red tape. that is the only basis on which we can proceed. but if we introduce liability alliances in the face of uncertainty and debt, we destroy the financial culture where it still works, and that is to the detriment of everyone.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. of course, this commission came into office a year ago with the message that one of the key elements for these five years is the integration of the capital markets. if i look at the commission's action plan, there is not much left of the great promise that we heard from jean-claude juncker here in july 2014. i want to make this quite clear: the proposals are very unambitious, they only concern a small area of issues that should be addressed in the context of a capital markets union. on the other hand, important aspects are not addressed at all. just to talk about the crowdfunding thing, there's something coming out maybe sometime next year. how can consumer protection be guaranteed and uniform standards be created? that's a subject we should be addressing. secondly, we are told that this would be the great instrument for small and mediumsized enterprises to gain access to the capital market. we have to agree that not every baker around the corner is going to be a public company tomorrow, and they don't have to be. but we should be honest with each other. access to the capital market is one option, but it is not the only one. we must use the time now to stabilize the structures, to reduce risks and not to pool risks. i am therefore very clear: all the considerations that now go beyond the action plan, including what i have read in the five presidents' report, are of great concern to me, because it is not a question of reducing risks and thereby bringing stability to the financial markets, but of suddenly making risks common, anonymous, and taking them to the european level, without the latter being able to guarantee this, and thus perpetuating the mistakes. of course, that cannot be supported. and that is why i hope that this point will be corrected. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr ferber. i would ask you to clarify one point in your speech. it is true that the scope of the cmu has been considerably less than expected. but one point that worries me is the fact that the european commission, mr juncker, is already making proposals for further integration in areas where the existing legal bases adopted by the european parliament and the council have not yet been implemented in all the member states. so my question to mr ferber is: what can we do to ensure that the european commission ensures that the laws we have adopted are implemented first before new laws are adopted in the same area?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr schwab is an experienced member who knows what instruments parliament has at its disposal. but i would just like to remind you that we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, at the hearing of the financial markets commissioner, lord hill, did deal with the question of deposit guarantee. the commissioner responsible made it clear that there is a directive in force which provides for an inventory analysis in 2019 and that this will then be the basis for further decisions. i assume that commissioner hill is also true to what he promised during the hearing before the european parliament. otherwise we will use all the tools at the disposal of the european parliament to teach the commission what it should and should not do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, my dear antonio! the negotiations, which i was fortunate enough to lead in the trilogue, were about finding a balance between the introduction of new technological possibilities, the existence of a secure legal framework, the guarantee of optimum consumer protection and data protection, but also the possibility for internet service providers to develop in the market and the fact that banks will no longer be able to block such payment services and payment initiation. if i may summarize it in one keyword: we have achieved a great success together in having a common legal framework in europe that allows for these technical possibilities, but at the same time ensures consumer protection and data protection. and we've made sure that the regulatory authorities have access to that, to make sure that the rules of the game are being followed. i think that's part of it and needs to be led. banks - and this is right - are no longer allowed to automatically block payment requests, as they have done in the past, because the old payment services directive dates back to a time before smartphones existed, and at that time there was no way to deal with this challenge at all. the consumer is only liable in the event of gross negligence. i think it is an important step forward that consumer protection is really being transferred to the levels responsible for it. we also had a gap in the old payment services directive which was not covered properly. this means that on the one hand we have created an incentive for start-ups in europe to be able to deal with the issue of payment services in the broadest sense, but at the same time we have created a legal framework to ensure that this does not happen at the expense of consumers or at the expense of security. this means that access to account data is not possible. that's why this is a very good compromise that was found here. i would like to thank antonio tajani. we'll agree to it tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague rübig, i would like to thank you for your work. i am, of course, a little overwhelmed to be taking over the work of the rapporteur or even the commission. but i can only say that there is a derogation for start-ups until they have three million in sales, so that they can enter the market. i think that is the crucial point for young, innovative companies. it is becoming interesting for smes to use the internet as a marketing tool, because payment systems are now available, and you can rely on them to pay your bills across borders. i think that this creates a number of opportunities for innovative smes to take advantage of.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we are in agreement here in the house across all party lines that the rapporteur, antonio tajani, deserves our thanks and that we are also satisfied with the results of the content of payment services in the internal market. i welcome this very much because i believe that we have achieved two important successes. firstly, we have created a real level playing field for the new digital payment methods. this will, however, put further pressure on the universal banking model that has prevailed in europe. and there will be more segmented sectoral banking offerings, which of course all have to work under the same standards, under the same security, under the same competition standards as the existing providers, so that we can actually maintain a uniform level playing field. secondly, it is important that we get the alignment between the internet, it security and cybersecurity directive, which the commission proposed in 2013, on the one hand, and the payment services directive, on the other hand, right, because of course we have to take special precautions in the digital age at the interface between payment services and classic critical infrastructures, which include banks and insurance. as rapporteur for the it security directive myself, i think i can say that the proposals, the requirements of this directive are absolutely exemplary. finally, i am naturally pleased that consumers will ultimately benefit from this payment services directive in that, on the one hand, their data is protected and, on the other hand, they can also - as mentioned earlier - rely on the services to protect them with a high level of protection and are only liable in the event of gross negligence. this creates an environment for consumers in europe that strengthens the single market, especially in the digital environment.
in writing. the renewal of the action plan on equality between women and men is an important step and i welcome the mention of relevant issues such as the strengthening of the economic situation of women and girls, access to the labour market and their participation in political and public life. however, key aspects are missing, such as the link between women's and girls' sexual and reproductive rights and access to education and the labour market. some 222 million women in developing countries lack access to safe and modern methods of family planning. worldwide, 62 million girls are out of school. this affects their participation in the labour market. the role of men and boys is also neglected in the action plan. they are important actors in gender equality policy. the eu's external policies must also be consistent with its internal policies. the eu's trade policy and its instruments also play an important role. in view of the complexity of this field, it is therefore necessary to give the action plan greater political weight and thus to upgrade it to a commission communication.
in writing. the institutional steering of values and standards through development aid instruments is a specialty of the eu. the report on 'renewing the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation' is, according to the noichl and tarabella reports, another example of the misuse of eu money by the citizens of the member states. the report not only supports gender manipulation by the information offices of the eu foreign ministry, but also promotes the portrayal of marriage and motherhood as a source of discrimination. this is not just bullshit, this is total bullshit! the femm committee has not only violated the principle of subsidiarity once again, but has also proven that this house supports special rights for migrant women, women living with hiv, lesbian, bi, trans and intersex women (lgbti) and women with disabilities but unfortunately does not tolerate heterosexuals and families. the committee's view was echoed by the plenary. i have not, of course, agreed to the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking today about the záborská report, which, if you ask me, does not deserve that name. he's too bad. i quote paragraph 16 under the heading 'monitoring and data collection': parliament called on the commission and the member states to take supervisory and control measures and to set up effective monitoring systems to improve the collection of data on cases of sexual harassment; a pan-european monitoring system against harassment. hurray for you! the second point i would like to make is important: 'we reaffirm the need for clear definitions, for example with regard to the gender pay gap'. that's right. we urgently need to define clear terms: what is gender, what is sexual identity, what is gender identity? what is this? let's define that and then talk about it, instead of talking about not knowing what it is. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think it's important that we also define very clearly what we're talking about in this context: acceptance of gender diversity. that sounds either totally awesome or totally crazy. i think we should be clear about what this is all about. and then we should explain to the several million immigrants who are now coming to us from other cultures what this is: acceptance of gender diversity.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs anna záborská, for her report and the efforts she has made in preparing her own-initiative report. we have the situation that in the last decades a lot has been done in terms of equality, equal rights in the european union. but of course there is still room for improvement, especially in the area of wage gaps, wage differentials. what do we have to do to get a handle on this problem? i think we should start by analyzing the causes. why the wide wage gap? this is primarily because women, of course, have a high rate of interruptions in their work and because reconciling family and work is still difficult in some countries. women also tend to choose less well-paid occupations. all of these are the causes. we must ensure that it is possible to remain in the profession and also facilitate re-entry. the collective agreements are required. i think there is not much we can do about it from a legislative point of view. i also reject the passages in the report which interfere with collective bargaining and reporting obligations which are nothing but bureaucracy for companies but do nothing for women's interests.
in writing. equal pay for men and women should be a given in the 21st century. however, equal pay for equal work remains a dream for many women. ten years after the principle was established, the directive has not yet been properly implemented in many member states. for years, the so-called gender pay gap has averaged 17% in the eu. without concrete and ambitious measures, this gap will not close for another 70 years. so, 2086 is it? women carry this inequality with them into retirement. the difference between men and women is 39%. the commission should identify the weaknesses in implementation and present a proposal to address them. what about, for example, compulsory wage controls and sanctions for failure to comply with the principle of equal pay? a review of progress in the context of the european semester would also be a good step. equal opportunities is a fundamental value of the european union and it should not be just on paper.
a writer. the commission is not thank you for allowing us to ask this question here today. we see again and again that citizens want to shop online and cannot do so for a variety of reasons - they have the wrong ipa address, the wrong credit card, the wrong nationality, the wrong country - and therefore cannot make that purchase. the law in the european union is actually clear: discrimination on grounds of nationality is not allowed, it is not right. it is therefore a pity that this great internal market which we have, which brings a very large profit to the companies, this great bee market for people, for consumers and consumers, still does not exist today and many obstacles are created. that is why it is very important that we take action here. in its communication on the digital single market strategy for europe, the european commission stated that it would 'address unjustified geoblocking in online commerce in 2016, including, where appropriate, through a targeted change to the legal framework for electronic commerce'. i am very interested to know what you mean by this change. what kind of change is this? what's your point? i am also very interested in how the european commission intends to ensure that article 20 (2) of the services directive and article 8 (3) of the consumer protection directive are finally implemented. the european parliament has been a party to the european convention on human rights for a long time, but it has not yet been able to take up its responsibilities. i look forward to hearing your answer.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today's oral question to the commission gives us the opportunity to make clear again what we have made clear as legislators in the services directive on the one hand and the consumer rights directive on the other. discrimination or differential treatment of consumers on grounds of nationality or location shall be permitted only where there are compelling legal reasons for doing so. in the european parliament we are working hard and are committed to creating the legal conditions for this and to eliminating any discrimination in future. we are aware that we need a number of standardisations to ensure that businesses and consumers actually have a single regulatory environment. but what we have seen with some providers - i am mentioning the disneyland case from the summer - is that although the conditions in these areas are standardised, there is still a certain abusive attempt to enforce different pricing models in europe. and that is simply unacceptable. i call on the european commission to act here with the full range of possibilities at its disposal. i say this particularly because we know how difficult it is to achieve uniform conditions. we also have the debate over and over again about how much uniformity we can afford. there are many member states who do not want to see certain areas of the legal conditions harmonised. but if, even under the conditions under which we have achieved unification, the citizens, the consumers, in the end, get the impression that companies can in a way grab the good part of the internal market for themselves, then we will be met with determined resistance. i would ask you, commissioner, to make a clear statement as to what you intend to do in these cases.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thailand is an important partner of the eu in both political and economic terms. it is all the more crucial that the eu, as thailand's friend and partner, addresses the worrying developments in human rights and democracy. thailand must do everything possible to return to a democratic civilian government as soon as possible and to respect the timetable for the upcoming elections. the thai government can take as a basis its own constitution and international obligations regarding the independence of the judiciary, freedom of expression, association and assembly. the arbitrary arrests of dissidents must stop. the un high commissioner for human rights (ohchr) regional office documented 1 222 arbitrary arrests between may 2014 and august 2015 alone. after arrest, so-called behavioural change sessions are often held in solitary confinement at military bases. i welcome the action taken by the thai government to combat illegal fishing and human trafficking. many men work on fishing boats in conditions that can be described as slavery. workers are bought and forced to stay on the ship, sometimes for years without pay. migrants from malaysia and cambodia and rohingya from myanmar are particularly affected. the thai government must also implement the measures and controls it has initiated in a consistent manner.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the situation in nigeria is dramatic. now even boko haram has pledged allegiance to the islamic state, forming a unique coalition - an alliance to spread terror across the country and indeed across the continent. in the last few months alone, boko haram has killed about 1,600 civilians. hundreds of thousands are on the run, including many children. and nigeria has the highest number of children out of school in the world, because of the terror of boko haram. we have heard a lot about this from the previous speakers. the international community must take responsibility and keep its promises of humanitarian aid. i therefore welcome, commissioner stylianides, the increase in funds for the victims of boko haram. but i think, despite all this, there is a glimmer of hope in nigeria. we have had a change of government, a democratic change, peaceful, which is not a given in africa. and the new president has now presented a program that sounds promising - among other things, in terms of fighting corruption, protecting women and children, and the nature of the military's operations against boko haram. and now we are very hopeful that we will be able to implement this programme. i think we have to do everything we can now to support this government, to support this region, so that this new program really succeeds.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because we need to further develop the area of secure electronic payments in the single market. this is crucial for the economic growth of the union and to ensure that consumers, traders and businesses can fully benefit from the benefits of the internal market through choice and transparency in payment services, in line with 'europe 2020' and the 'digital agenda'. the importance of progressive integration is growing as the world moves away from direct customer traffic towards a digital economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on payment services in the internal market. mr tajani has done an excellent job. payment services are of fundamental importance when we talk about the single european internal market.
in writing. ‒ i support my colleague's report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market, amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec. the creation of an internal market for payments and electronic transactions makes an important contribution to the protection of consumers in the eu. more and more work is being done across borders and on the internet. the lack of a clear legal framework leads to legal uncertainty and a lack of consumer protection.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is the final confirmation of the compromise reached in july in the trilogue between the ep, the council of ministers and the commission. it builds on a previous directive, 2007/64/ec, and thus completes the framework for a common market for electronic payments. this includes the opening of the market for so-called payment initiation services and account information services. in this respect, the proposal is innovation-friendly, promotes competition between payment service providers and is another building block towards a well-functioning european single market. this common regulation establishes the 'level playing field' in a transparent manner. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. i hereby call on the commission, the ecb and eba to pay careful attention to the following aspects when implementing the directive and subsequently as supervisory authorities: - data protection and security against unauthorised access are non-negotiable and must be guaranteed in all circumstances. - the account information service uses strong customer authentication for account queries. - the third party service must be provided with insurance cover which ensures full compensation of the credit institution holding the account for any damage. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is the final confirmation of the compromise reached in july in the trilogue between the ep, the council of ministers and the commission. it builds on a previous directive, 2007/64/ec, and thus completes the framework for a common market for electronic payments. this includes the opening of the market for so-called payment initiation services and account information services. in this respect, the proposal is innovation-friendly, promotes competition between payment service providers and is another building block towards a well-functioning european single market. this common regulation establishes the 'level playing field' in a transparent manner. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. i hereby call on the commission, the ecb and eba to pay careful attention to the following aspects when implementing the directive and subsequently as supervisory authorities: - data protection and security against unauthorised access are non-negotiable and must be guaranteed in all circumstances. - the account information service uses strong customer authentication for account queries. - the third party service must be provided with insurance cover which ensures full compensation of the credit institution holding the account for any damage.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is the final confirmation of the compromise reached in july in the trilogue between the ep, the council of ministers and the commission. it builds on a previous directive, 2007/64/ec, and thus completes the framework for a common market for electronic payments. this includes the opening of the market for so-called payment initiation services and account information services. in this respect, the proposal is innovation-friendly, promotes competition between payment service providers and is another building block towards a well-functioning european single market. this common regulation establishes the 'level playing field' in a transparent manner. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. i hereby call on the commission, the ecb and eba to pay careful attention to the following aspects when implementing the directive and subsequently as supervisory authorities: - data protection and security against unauthorised access are non-negotiable and must be guaranteed in all circumstances. - the account information service uses strong customer authentication for account queries. - the third party service must be provided with insurance cover which ensures full compensation of the credit institution holding the account for any damage.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is the final confirmation of the compromise reached in july in the trilogue between the ep, the council of ministers and the commission. it builds on a previous directive, 2007/64/ec, and thus completes the framework for a common market for electronic payments. this includes the opening of the market for so-called payment initiation services and account information services. in this respect, the proposal is innovation-friendly, promotes competition between payment service providers and is another building block towards a well-functioning european single market. this common regulation establishes the 'level playing field' in a transparent manner. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. i hereby call on the commission, the ecb and eba to pay careful attention to the following aspects when implementing the directive and subsequently as supervisory authorities: - data protection and security against unauthorised access are non-negotiable and must be guaranteed in all circumstances. - the account information service uses strong customer authentication for account queries. - the third party service must be provided with insurance cover which ensures full compensation of the credit institution holding the account for any damage.
in writing. ‒ this proposal is the final confirmation of the compromise reached in july in the trilogue between the ep, the council of ministers and the commission. it builds on a previous directive, 2007/64/ec, and thus completes the framework for a common market for electronic payments. this includes the opening of the market for so-called payment initiation services and account information services. in this respect, the proposal is innovation-friendly, promotes competition between payment service providers and is another building block towards a well-functioning european single market. this common regulation establishes the 'level playing field' in a transparent manner. that is why i am voting in favour of this report. i hereby call on the commission, the ecb and eba to pay careful attention to the following aspects when implementing the directive and subsequently as supervisory authorities: - data protection and security against unauthorised access are non-negotiable and must be guaranteed in all circumstances. - the account information service uses strong customer authentication for account queries. - the third party service must be provided with insurance cover which ensures full compensation of the credit institution holding the account for any damage.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the revision of the payment services directive in the internal market. the aim is to strengthen the european single market. the result will be a system of controls on the payment service providers which will restrict the freedom of payment. i also believe that regulation is not a means of promoting competition but a means of preventing it. small internet providers will have a harder time competing with the space-deer. finally, i think the credit card charge cap is wrong. finally, the prohibition on charging charges leads to the cost of credit card payments being passed on to users of other payment methods via the prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on mortgage legislation and risky financial instruments in the eu: the case of spain today, because i think that the proposals and approaches it makes are the wrong way to go.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the report on mortgage legislation and risky financial instruments in spain. i think it is problematic when national issues and conflicts are transferred to the european level but have no practical impact on the search for a common european position. this is the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the motion for a resolution on mortgage legislation in spain. firstly, it is a national matter which spain should deal with without eu interference. secondly, i see no reason to shield mortgage borrowers from the economic consequences of their miscalculation. with all due respect for the plight of the people, it is not possible for the taxpayer to assume the risks of those who have acquired housing on credit and thus speculatively. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. he caused the real estate bubble in spain. but the proposal does not contain any indication that the euro is the root of the problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because i strongly condemn the death penalty. respect for human rights and respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law are cornerstones of human interaction. it is therefore our duty to condemn, for example, the practice of stoning to death.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on the death penalty because, as a christian and a democrat, and as a member of the only christian democratic party in europe (ecpm), i am morally opposed to the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as i believe that the death penalty should be abandoned as a form of punishment. there are profound moral and philosophical grounds for eradicating the death penalty from legal codes worldwide. it is inconsistent with the values of modern democratic societies and human dignity. especially morally shocking is the use of the death penalty for minors and people with mental or intellectual disability. the eu should collaborate with other players on the international stage to promote the abolishment of the death penalty worldwide. it is also deeply regrettable and morally unacceptable that this form of punishment is being used as a tool of political repression – not to mention the immense cruelty of stoning, which is still being pursued in some regions of the world. in addition, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because i believe that the death penalty as a punishment must be abolished. the moral and philosophical reasons for the abolition of the death penalty from law books worldwide are profound. it is incompatible with the values of a modern democratic society and human dignity. the use of the measure against minors and persons with intellectual disabilities is particularly shocking. the eu should work with other actors internationally to promote the worldwide abolition of the death penalty. it is equally deeply shocking and morally reprehensible that this form of sanction is being used as a political tool. not to mention the cruelty of stoning, which is still practiced in some parts of the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution because i believe that the death penalty as a punishment must be abolished. the moral and philosophical reasons for the abolition of the death penalty from law books worldwide are profound. it is incompatible with the values of a modern democratic society and human dignity. the use of the measure against minors and persons with intellectual disabilities is particularly shocking. the eu should work with other actors internationally to promote the worldwide abolition of the death penalty. it is equally deeply shocking and morally reprehensible that this form of sanction is being used as a political tool. not to mention the cruelty of stoning, which is still practiced in some parts of the world.
in writing. ‒ on 10 october, the international community of states will commemorate its international day against the death penalty. the european parliament is making its contribution to this by adopting this resolution on its own initiative. in many countries - pakistan, nigeria, afghanistan, iran, iraq, yemen, sudan, somalia, and saudi arabia - people are still sentenced to death by stoning. hundreds of women have been stoned to death for adultery in these countries in recent years. countless people from this cultural circle are currently migrating uncontrolled and en masse to the eu member states and especially to germany . a state governed by the rule of law, which also considers itself a state of culture, cannot legitimise the death of a person 'in the course of his duties'. the abolition of the death penalty can break the vicious circle of violence. there are more hopeful and effective ways to combat the increase in violent crime. that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. i voted today for the resolution lessons from the mudslide disaster in hungary five years after the accident because i believe that in europe and worldwide we are learning lessons from disasters far too seldom and far too slowly. that has to change. we have to learn.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the lessons learned from the mudslide in hungary. we must ensure that appropriate inspections are carried out and that red mud is properly classified as hazardous waste.
in writing. ‒ on 4 october 2010, between 700,000 and 1 million cubic metres of sludge leaked from the storage tanks of an aluminium plant when a dam collapsed in kolontár, hungary. red mud is dangerous for life because it contains corrosive soda ash and toxic heavy metals. five years later, the european parliament is reminding us of this. it notes that this environmental disaster is linked to poor implementation of eu law, deficiencies in inspections, gaps in relevant eu law and the way the operator of the plant operates. the eu commission is repeatedly criticised for not closely monitoring the implementation of key elements of the environmental liability directive, for example. the eu parliament, however, refuses to accept the only logical recommendation, namely to hand back to the member states the responsibility for the in-depth control of their own national environmental laws. while the eu parliament laments that the existing european mechanisms are not working, it is nonetheless calling for 'more europe' immediately by extending the environmental acquis, by additional capacity at european level (a new agency in hungary?), by an additional eu-wide facility for industrial accidents. these new mechanisms are to be provided in addition, although the mechanisms already in place are not yet fully applied. this isn't thought through. i am not a member of the committee responsible and there was no real opportunity to amend this text, so i shall abstain.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation, because the demands made in the text do not correspond to what i believe from my own development policy experience and as the acp coordinator of my group: that an exaggerated, undefined and insensitive gender ideology hinders development policy rather than promoting it.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the renewal of the eu action plan on gender equality and women's empowerment in development cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the institutional steering of values and standards through development aid instruments is a specialty of the eu. conditionality of development cooperation means: gender manipulation by the information offices of the eu ministry of foreign affairs; the establishment of gender-sensitive monitoring and evaluation processes not only in the administration but also in smes and family businesses that may receive eu support; abolishing general legal principles by promoting special rights for non-quantifiable special groups (young women, migrants, women living with hiv, lesbian, bi, trans and intersex women (lgbti) and women with disabilities) unfortunately no protection mechanisms for heterosexuals; the unlawful mixing of 'women's health' and the criminalization of abortion; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of women, which is intended to promote equal opportunities for women and men in the european union. instead, promoting special lgbt rights; eu-remote legal activism in foreign cultural circles through the targeted provision of financial support in legal aid (legal activism, which the eu, however, prohibits on its territory...). the eu is spending the money of the citizens of the member states on this nonsense! i do not agree with this nonsense, and therefore i reject this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by mrs záborská on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation today, because this text violates the principle of subsidiarity in some key areas, limits the collective autonomy of our social partners and, in terms of absolute wage transparency, makes demands that are incompatible with a free, social market economy in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by anna záborská on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation today, because it breaches the principle of subsidiarity in some key areas. it calls for absolute wage transparency and the associated threat of sanctions which are neither market-economic nor within the eu's remit. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by anna záborská on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation today, because it breaches the principle of subsidiarity in some key areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by anna záborská on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation today, because it breaches the principle of subsidiarity in some key areas. it calls for absolute wage transparency and the associated threat of sanctions which are neither market-economic nor within the eu's remit.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by anna záborská on equal opportunities and equal treatment for men and women in matters of employment and occupation today, because it breaches the principle of subsidiarity in some key areas. it calls for absolute wage transparency and the associated threat of sanctions which are neither market-economic nor within the eu's remit.
in writing. ‒ traditional gender roles (man/father, woman/mother) prevent self-fulfilment in the labour market, which is why the eu should use taxpayers' money from mothers and fathers to counter the cementing of gender stereotypes. if human self-realization existed exclusively in the labour market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat discrimination and to combat discrimination against women. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: if gender terminology is to be defined and harmonised only now, this means that gender experts have been experimenting with the concept of gender since 1995 without clear definitions. their new big issue, by the way, is gender reassignment as the complete denial of human nature, especially in the workplace. the european parliament calls on the member states to include in their national legislation a clear prohibition of any discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation, gender identity or gender reassignment, and to extend these privileges equally to all transgender people. in the meantime, the european social fund will be used to actively combat discrimination against transgender people. i'm not going to take that. the member states must respect the labour market rules which their national parliaments have set for themselves. but this resolution is not necessary.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 8 october 2015.
i am not going to go into detail. on behalf of the european parliament, i condemn in the strongest terms the bombings in ankara and express our deepest condolences to the families of the victims. our thoughts are with the nearly 100 people killed and the more than 500 injured, to whom we wish a speedy and complete recovery. in these difficult days, we stand with the victims and their families. this brutal terrorist attack on peaceful protesters was an attack on democracy. it is clear that these criminals want to stir up discord and spread fear in the run-up to the elections. we must not let the perpetrators lose this victory. the eu and turkey are currently engaged in close exchanges to find a common solution to the refugee situation. the dramatic events and developments are of course also affecting the current debate on turkey's status as a safe third country. in my recent talks with turkish opposition politicians and with the turkish president, i also expressed our concern about the escalation of violence and the increasing polarization in turkey over the past few months. and that is why free and pluralistic media must be defended by the state as an indispensable pillar of democracy. i have also made a strong appeal for a ceasefire and a return to the political process with the kurds. the european parliament has made it clear on more than one occasion that reconciliation is the only way to secure a secure and prosperous future for turkey. we hope that the democratic forces in turkey will now stand together, break the spiral of violence and promote peaceful coexistence, so that free and fair parliamentary elections can be held on 1 november.
ladies and gentlemen, the european citizens' award recognises the exceptional commitment of citizens, groups and organisations in our union to better mutual understanding and to better cross-border cooperation. it also recognises activities that give concrete expression to the values enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. the winners are involved in a wide range of fields, from intercultural dialogue to direct solidarity, integration and the preservation of historical memory. the european parliament will honour this year's laureates at a ceremony here today at 5 p.m. all of you, ladies and gentlemen, are cordially invited to attend. a number of these laureates are here with us today, and i would like to welcome you, ladies and gentlemen, to the podium in our plenary. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this part-session, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on 1 october, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: the epp group has asked for a resolution to conclude the debate on the council and commission statements on the impact of the ecj judgment on usa/safe harbour. the resolution is to be voted on at the october iii part-session.
i have to say, mr gonzález pons! we already have a pronunciation. there is a statement from the council and the commission. it's about the resolution. the only thing that is being asked is that a resolution should be voted on at the next plenary session in strasbourg.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. i think we can all agree that the european court of justice's decision to annul the save harbour agreement is a very important one. the commission has acknowledged the inadequacy of save harbour, following pressure from the european parliament, which the epp also, together with other political groups also put pressure on the commission, in view of the fact that the data under the save harbour agreement are not sufficiently protected. but that is also why it is important that parliament remains on the ball and that we adopt a joint resolution to express our views and to seek a rapid way forward together with the commission to achieve reasonable cooperation and legal certainty in europe in the future with regard to data flows to america and vice versa.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can confirm that the safe harbour ruling was an important ruling. i am also glad to hear that the epp has always said this; i've heard other things said in between. as regards the resolution, this parliament has for years had a clear position on safe harbour, namely that data is not safe with this agreement. and we do not need to confirm that position again. the commission is clearly on the ball. the commission must now say how it is going to deal with it, and the way to deal with it cannot be: keep it up. the commission has to come up with a new proposal and we can then react to it.
i shall put the motion to the vote. (parliament rejected the request) the group of the european united left/nordic green left calls for the inclusion on the agenda of a statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in turkey, entitled 'mass killing of a significant number of innocent people during a peace rally'.
i shall put the motion to the vote. (parliament rejected the request) (the agenda is therefore adopted.)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission in preparation for the european council meeting of 15 and 16 october 2015 (2015/2768 ((rsp)).
president of the council. ladies and gentlemen, the european council meeting tomorrow and friday will once again be focused on the refugee crisis. this crisis is a challenge for each of us and for the union as a whole, and we must provide the common responses that are needed. no member state can manage migration flows on its own. we have come to realise this, perhaps painfully at times, and hence the need for genuine european solidarity to be fully realised. i think that in the last few weeks things have developed in a positive way. the european council has been concerned with this subject since the beginning of the crisis. president tusk spoke to you about it last week. the european council must not only decide on emergency measures, but also develop political guidelines on the whole of migration and asylum policy. tomorrow he will discuss three fundamental aspects. firstly, cooperation with third countries to prevent migratory flows. secondly, to strengthen the protection of the union's external borders. thirdly, to respond to the flow of refugees into europe and to ensure a return policy. let me explain these three aspects in detail. first, cooperation with third countries. mr president, i would first of all like to endorse, on behalf of the presidency and the council, what you said earlier. the murderous and criminal attack that took place in ankara has shocked and upset us all. we are of course with the turkish people, we share their grief and we express our sympathy, solidarity and deepest condolences. but, moreover, we also share what you said about the importance of dialogue, about all the efforts that must be made to organise the elections, to give turkish democracy the strength it so badly needs in these difficult times. i would like to return to the aspect of cooperation with third countries, in particular with countries of origin and transit, which is a top priority for the proper management of migration flows. until conditions in these countries improve, too many refugees will risk their lives to leave and nothing will stop them. on 8 october the high-level conference on the eastern mediterranean and western balkans route was held. it marks the beginning of a process which will enable us to strengthen cooperation with all our partners, in the interests of all, for a more efficient management of migration flows. solidarity with the balkan countries seems to me to be of the utmost importance in this respect. these countries also face difficulties, including economic ones, and we must help, support and sustain them. the valletta summit with african countries, scheduled for mid-november, will have to forge a stronger partnership and lead to concrete measures. a few weeks ago, we had a discussion here in brussels about development, about all aspects of development and also about migration, especially from africa. we must be aware that development and migration are often two sides of the same coin, the coin of underdevelopment and poverty. these two major meetings are tangible proof of the union's determination to engage in constructive dialogues with the countries most concerned. the strengthening of relations with turkey will also be on the agenda of the european council, with a view to the adoption of the joint action plan which we have already discussed, i believe, last week in strasbourg. the second component is the reinforcement of the protection of the union's external borders. the treaty is very clear: we must gradually establish an integrated system for the management of external borders. the european council will endeavour to provide concrete guidance in this respect for the member states, which are responsible for protecting their national borders, but also for the european agencies, in particular frontex, whose tasks in this field should be reviewed and strengthened. thirdly, the response to the flow of refugees into europe and the return policy. we have a duty to help refugees, but among those who cross our borders illegally, we know that not all of them need international protection under the geneva convention. a coherent, credible and effective return policy for illegally staying third-country nationals, which fully respects the human rights and dignity of the persons concerned and the principle of non-refoulement, is an essential element of an overall european union migration policy. this is done first by identification and registration. in this context, the first hot spot was set up in italy. we must of course continue along this path. much remains to be done, particularly with the active support of the member states. the decisions taken in the council on relocation are being implemented and must be implemented to the end. another aspect of our migration and asylum policy will be discussed tomorrow: the external aspect. as many have said, the causes of these human tragedies that produce these migratory phenomena must be eradicated. we need to look actively at our role on the international stage and at what is happening in syria and libya. these issues will also be on the agenda of the european council. ladies and gentlemen, mr president, the presidency has ensured that the council is working tirelessly on the answers to one of the great crises we are going through. we have achieved important and significant results in an extremely short time, including the adoption in september of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposal to relocate 160 000 refugees. more recently, on 8 october, the council adopted conclusions on the future of return policy, which give a clear overview of the work to be undertaken. the council also had a thorough discussion on the management of the union's external borders; it has adopted financial measures to enable policies to be followed up by rapid action on the ground. the ministers of the interior were also informed of the latest developments in the implementation of the relocation decisions and welcomed the first relocation operation which took place on 9 october. my colleague, mr asselborn, the minister for immigration, visited italy and greece on this occasion. in conclusion, i would like to express once again our gratitude for the responsibility that the european parliament has taken on the issue of migration, in particular for the decisions on relocation. you have been extremely quick, committed and efficient, and this cooperation has been very valuable. as you can imagine, this meeting will be dominated by this major challenge. but i would add, as president tusk's invitation letter indicates, that the european council will also take stock of the next steps in the process leading up to the british referendum. he will listen to president hollande on preparations for the cop 21 in paris, which you will be discussing here shortly. finally, work on the report of the five presidents continued in the council, particularly under the luxembourg presidency. the european council will now take stock of the work done, on the basis of a report prepared by the presidency and to be presented by prime minister bettel, in the knowledge that the deepening of economic and monetary union is a priority for the presidency. thank you for your attention.
president of the commission. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i was in passau, bavaria, germany, last week, and i talked to refugees, and i talked to those who are taking care of refugees. the most beautiful images come from talking to refugees; the most interesting conversations are with those who, very often, take care of refugees and their fate on our behalf. i want to say again, and i've said this many times, that i'm full of admiration for the life performance of the people who care for refugees, who don't ask what time it is, and who can barely tell the difference between day and night. this applies to the volunteers, and especially to the police officers on duty. you don't often praise the police. but i would like to say here, at this hour and after this visit, which i did not make but which i have lived through with the president of the group of the european people's party, mr manfred weber, and other colleagues: we can also sometimes thank the police for the most difficult tasks they have to master, and that is what i wanted to do with this. (applause from the centre) the refugee crisis will now again dominate the european council's agenda almost entirely. we would all do well to tell the people in our countries that this refugee crisis will not be over by christmas. it will persist for years, perhaps decreasing in density, but remaining a phenomenon. so it's not just about short-term action, though it's more important, it's also about talking about tackling the refugee crisis for years to come in a quiet hour - not with a calmness, but detached from understandable, but ultimately stupid passions. that is why the commission has proposed a permanent redistribution mechanism. i think that the member states would be well advised to follow the european commission's approach quickly. we need to define short-term responses, but because the phenomenon and the problem will persist, we also need to know that we also need to put in place a permanent mechanism to deal with this challenging refugee issue. that is what we as a commission will do. the commission is not going to depart from the intention i expressed in presenting the priorities of the european commission to present a legislative proposal on legal immigration. i am of the opinion, as others are, that the short-term problem cannot be alleviated by such a proposal and decisions. but we must remember that europe is a continent of immigration, and we must take this challenge and this opportunity responsibly, and i hope we will. i would like to make the following comments on the situation, and i will try to be brief because i have an appointment with the president of latvia at five o'clock. the hotspots a terrible word, one should try to describe these places with more tenderness are doing well. italy has identified the location of four hotspots, greece five. i had the director-general responsible for structural reforms in greece sent to athens. he spent a week there, talking to everyone. he reported on this at the commission meeting today. he reports directly to me, because i already feel that the problem of migration is a problem that concerns the president of the commission in the first place. he tells me that greece has made very impressive progress in setting up the hotspots and in dealing with the refugee question in general, which of course makes me happy. what i am less pleased about is the fact that the european council on 23 september this year took decisions on the refugee question, including budgetary decisions. the european union is being criticized all the time. i do not like to turn on german television because every television programme - and not just in germany - is massively critical of the european union as such. europe must do this, europe must do that, europe must deliver, europe does not deliver. europe, the institutions of europe, the parliament and the commission have delivered! we took decisions at the european council on 23 september and immediately took the budgetary consequences into account and made budgetary proposals for 2015, for 2016. i am extremely grateful to the european parliament and to you, mr president, for your rapid and concise response to these proposals. the european council on 23 september, we have arrived today on 14 october. what was expected of the commission and the european parliament has been done. we must stop criticizing the european union and its institutions. it should be noted that the institutions have delivered. the member states have not done so to the same extent as the european union. we were promised that the european asylum agency would hire 774 additional officials, which easo is asking for. so far, 81 men have been provided by the member states. frontex has applied for 775 additional posts, to the great applause of the european council. so far, 48 posts have been committed by the member states. we are in the process of moving the 160,000 refugees, although i have not liked every stage of this. the 19 refugees who are being brought to sweden and the 160,000 refugees who need to be taken care of, that says it all. but the beginning has been made. i would like to commend the luxembourg presidency in general, but i would also like to mention in praise the decisions taken by the luxembourg presidency, especially by foreign minister asselborn. this was a very impressive achievement by the luxembourg presidency. nevertheless, we must now continue to build up the national contact points necessary to give registered refugees an address from which they can move to other countries. all but three member states have designated such contact points. i would like to express my surprise that it seems difficult to get enough refugees in greece to seek their fortune in luxembourg. luxembourg is one of the richest countries in the european union, and it seems to be extremely difficult to find enough candidates - if i may say so - to move to luxembourg. now i can understand why many people think that juncker is no longer in luxembourg, and that is why luxembourg is no longer the same country. but still, please, it is not an insult to ask people who are fleeing to be resettled in luxembourg. so, even though they're not listening to me, i want to make a big push to get enough candidates to come forward to take this hopeful journey. i pointed out that the commission and parliament, first parliament and then the commission, adopted the budgetary policy conclusions of the council decisions of 23 september with a rapidity unprecedented up to that time. we have provided an additional €1.7 billion in funding as the commission through the 2015 supplementary budget and in the run-up to the 2016 budget, bringing the total available to €9.2 billion, to allow us to deal with this refugee crisis in a more or less adequate way. as regards humanitarian aid, i would like to commend the work of the high commissioner for refugees, mr antónio guterres, very warmly and specifically, and the commission has allocated an additional 500 million euro from its budget for world hunger relief. on 23 september all the member states agreed to a declaration stating that the member states should raise this contribution from their own budgetary resources. so far, however, only 275 million have been announced. this is not a very significant figure, because of this 275 million euro, the united kingdom alone accounts for 225 million euro. i would like to express my appreciation of the efforts of the british government and parliament in this matter. this is solidarity in action. the british are not just talking about this, they are acting on it. i think that deserves the highest praise. (applause from the centre) so of that 500 million in humanitarian aid, 225 million are missing. i would like, and i demand, that the european council bring in those 225 million tomorrow! (applause from the centre) it's not enough to make promises. you have to deliver by the proof of the deed. that is what i expect from the european council meeting tomorrow. the commission has, together with parliament, set aside an additional eur 500 million from its own budget for the syrian trust fund. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the european investment bank. i would like to see the heads of state and government make this 492 million available tomorrow. (applause from the centre) the commission has allocated eur 1.8 billion from its own budget to the emergency trust fund for africa, i.e. from the budgetary resources of the citizens of europe - it is not our money. the european council of 23 september agreed that member states should also provide eur 1.8 billion. the commission has so far committed itself to nine million euros: three million for luxembourg, three million for spain and three million for germany. that is what i wanted to see confirmed here. the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the matter. i would like to see what was promised on 23 september delivered by the member states tomorrow at the european council. it's not enough to make promises. it's the deed that counts! (applause from the centre) as regards turkey, mr president, i would first of all like to join your words of condolence and compassion, as it is true that condolence and compassion must go hand in hand. we received, with you, monsieur le président, with president tusk and other colleagues, including mrs mogherini, president erdogan about a week ago. we had separate interviews with him, then we had a working meeting with him and the three presidents of the institution. it was a fruitful meeting. i am aware of the problems which characterize the present situation in turkey and i would like to join your calls for democratic reforms, freedom of the press and the other great principles which you have not failed to mention. it is still my duty, ladies and gentlemen, after having referred to your president, to present a programme of cooperation between turkey and the european union on the migration question, which was also very well received by the president of the turkish republic. each of us has his own ideas about the processes taking place in turkey, but we need this country, as this country does, on other points, we need the european union. turkey is hosting 2.2 million refugees and is providing an effort similar to that of lebanon and jordan. the european union has a long history of supporting the palestinian cause, and the palestinian people have a long history of supporting the cause of peace. the non-european countries are more important than the european countries. should i be proud? no, but we must be aware of and place this observation on our radar of analysis of the migration problem. i am firmly resolved, in spite of the doubt, in spite of the hesitation, in spite of the questions we may have and i have, to put turkey on the list of safe countries. without this, turkey would be the only candidate country not to appear on this list. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. we cannot do both at the same time and in parallel. therefore, i would like to put turkey on the list of safe countries. i also call for us to speed up the visa liberalisation process. i have sent, with their agreement, of course, vice-president timmermans and commissioner hahn to turkey today. it was planned that vice-president timmermans would visit turkey on sunday. this was not possible because turkey, for understandable reasons, had declared a national mourning. the commission has also been asked to provide the council with a report on the implementation of the programme, which will be submitted to the council by the end of the year. i think very sincerely that we should at least begin by liberalizing this regime as far as the economic world is concerned and then, following the rules which must be applied, we can progress more rapidly on this dossier than has been the case up to the present. we must declare our agreement in principle to open other chapters in the accession process. turkey is a useful but difficult partner, but we must be able to move forward with it because it has become the gateway to europe for hundreds of thousands of refugees. i had proposed to president erdogan, in the presence of your president, that a joint greek-turkish team be set up to monitor the sea between turkey and greece. the turkish people were in agreement. i come from a country that is not greece. it is a question of europe, not of greek-turkish relations! i would therefore ask the greek government to reconsider this position, because it would be very useful if, under european command, the naval forces of the two countries cooperated to ensure that this gate of entry was reasonably closed. with turkey, we have therefore tried to make progress. the european council of tomorrow will have to deal with other problems: the report of the five presidents ... i will not dwell on this. when we report on the work of the european council we can of course mention this problem. tomorrow i will have a visit (that means a working lunch) from the british prime minister in order to discuss relations, as our british friends say, between britain and the european union. i repeat here what i have been saying since march 2014: i want, we want, the commission wants a fair deal with britain and we are working in that direction. i can't give details, but our negotiating teams have been in close contact for weeks now. i cannot say that huge progress has been achieved; i cannot say that nothing has been achieved but it takes two to tango. as some here know, i'm not a splendid dancer, but i do at least know the rules which have to be observed by others, and it needs two to tango. and so we have to dance and our british friends have to dance, but for sure, i am 150 per cent in favour of having britain as a constructive member state of the european union. we need britain. personally, i do think that britain needs the european union, but that is a matter of conviction. others may have a different feeling about that; they would have the same feeling if ever britain were to leave the european union. but that is not the assumption under which i am working. that is all, mr president. they weren't that short, but it still took 23 minutes. i have to apologize for that, and also for the fact that i have to dilute myself here at some point because i would not like to keep the latvian president waiting. i must thank you very much for your attention. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! first of all, just to be clear: we in the epp very much welcome the fact that the five presidents' report is being continued, that we are taking on the task of deepening monetary union, and we also welcome the statements made by the president of the commission towards the united kingdom. the epp too wants to make its contribution to the fair deal, and in that respect we wish you a lot of fun dancing, mr president of the commission! ladies and gentlemen, the main issue today is of course the question of migration, which has been moving us for weeks now. and when the citizens see us, when our european politicians see us, the first thing that comes to mind is: does european politics have a sense of how to respond to the challenge? i think we have to give that guidance again and again. the first principle is solidarity. if jordan is doing something, if lebanon is doing something, then europe must do something. we must help and we must practice solidarity within europe in the distribution of burdens. ladies and gentlemen, this includes - as the president of the commission has said - the fact that refugees do not have the right to choose their own country, but must help in the partnership work of solidarity. the second principle is that external borders must be protected. this is an important point for my group. all models depend on the question of whether the state can take action again, and we even think that the european council should have the strength to take big steps and, for example, to really start the construction of a european coast guard or a european border guard agency, which really deserves the name, with its own staff, mr schmit. we need big steps! the third principle is - and this is also important to my group - repatriation. it's an unpleasant subject, but it's part of the job! last year, two thirds of all applicants were rejected following a rule of law procedure. and then we also have to make sure that these rejected refugees leave the european union and are returned. these are the guidelines for answering. the european council tomorrow will certainly have a lot to say about the question of countries of origin, the real causes of the problems on the table. i would like to ask you specifically that we should succeed tomorrow in reaching a common wording on the syrian issue among the member states of the european union. it cannot be that one says, "we need to talk to assad", and the other says, "i am not willing to talk to assad". it's just going to cause confusion. europe is not linguistically competent and we will not be able to help resolve this conflict at our doorstep. we need a diplomatic initiative! and the second is libya, which is not talked about enough. we talk a lot about syria, but we also need to talk about libya. and we need a package to send a signal to the parties in the conflict: if you agree - and there are also positive signals, not just negative - then we are also ready to help you with a package. these are the two points which are driving us to the point of origin, and the transit country, turkey, is of course important. we support the initiative of our president of the commission to reach out to turkey and to think together about how we can meet the challenges. the visa issues, the issues of mobilising more money are on the table, and i would also like to signal support for the epp group on these points. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must continue to speak clearly on the kurdish question, on human rights in turkey, because we are only a good friend of turkey if we are also honest with each other. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the examples given were: staff provision large announcements, nothing delivered; providing money big announcements, nothing delivered the commission's proposal to simplify and improve procedures, the slogan of 'safe country of origin turkey', is supported by the european parliament. the home ministers can't agree on anything. and that is why i am asking you first of all to stop sending all the black peters to brussels. the commission has not failed to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. what is failing here is national egoism, and this must be clearly answered by the member states. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, and this is very important to me emotionally: we had a debate in the european parliament last week, with the leaders of our member states present - the king of spain, françois hollande, angela merkel. and i want to turn to the right side; the european parliament has already been consulted on this matter. but it became clear in this debate that they really have no points that are important to them, because the right-wing populists who always hold the nation so high even before the spanish king were not able to stand up and applaud, were not even able to treat heads of state with respect. and that's why it was also expressed last week that many of these right-wing populists have nothing at all that they believe in - neither in europe nor in the nation states. you believe only in yourself, and that is shameful, ladies and gentlemen! today, someone is at the microphone wearing a suit, because tonight the oktoberfest is opening in brussels, and i would therefore like to say for myself: i am proud of bayer, i love my homeland. i am a german member of parliament and i am a convinced european. because we want to do this together, to do this together, to answer the question of migration. we don't want to divide like the right-wing populists.
thank you very much, mr. weber. (interruptions and disturbances in the chamber) have you calmed down? - no, you didn't. if you haven't calmed down, you're welcome to go outside to calm down and then come back in. you are not the parliament's time-keeper. and if you don't stop screaming around here, i'm going to take action.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i think it is very good that mr juncker has once again mentioned that we are talking about a problem which will be a subject for our attention for a long time. we have already discussed this with mr hollande and mrs merkel last week. i just think that this view of the longterm nature and the scale of the problem must not lead to taking as much time as we have taken in the past to deal with these pressing problems in relation to certain measures which simply have to be taken in the european union now. and i think it is very right, mr juncker, that you have said: it is a disgrace that the member states are not even able to implement the emergency aid programmes for africa, for syria and the support for the united nations world food programme - not even these commitments - from one summit to the next. if this continues, i wonder how confidence can be built in the european union's ability to act. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have the right to decide on the future of the community. i have the impression that when we say: we must talk to assad, or: we must talk to putin, it becomes a commonplace now, if we do not know what and with what aim we should actually hold these talks. and the unity against isis - that's one thing - but this unity, it's not enough to have a long-term plan for how this region, where we have such big problems, should develop further. the key to the european union's ability to deal with the refugee challenge is to recognise that dublin has failed, as we have. the first to express this was the federal chancellor. that means, in my view, that we must do exactly what you said very quickly. we must not only ensure better management of the hotspots, but also a permanent, solidarity-based distribution of the people who flee to us and who arrive there. and this is not a step that i think can be taken next year, but it is something that needs to be decided quickly. we have often argued about safe third countries. for the balkans, i must say that i think it is right to set priorities in the present situation. but i also think you need to work on what you said in the state of the union and come up with something. what does it mean in these countries to guarantee the individual right to asylum? the europeans must be clear about that. the recognition of turkey as a safe third country now would, in my view, be an acknowledgement of president erdogan's policy, and that is simply not possible! erdogan has led his country away from democracy, erdogan has trampled on the rule of law. and i think that's just a moment of talking straight with him that was missed. the chancellor will travel there and talk to erdogan; i hope that this is not just about refugees, but also about how turkey should develop. and i hope that, even if europeans are going there now, they will not only talk to president erdogan, who bears a great deal of responsibility for the whole thing, for all this bad development, but that they will at least talk to the families and those who have had to mourn this insane number of victims over the weekend. thank you for your attention. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council by 31 december. if you look at the un figures, there are 60 million people this year who are refugees, who have been forced to leave their homes for various reasons. and i'll give you that: there are many countries in the world that can take more responsibility for this. but the european union has not yet taken on the responsibility that corresponds to its economic strength, including its own values. we will have to bring many more refugees to europe, to the european union, in the next few years than we have done so far.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. they appreciated the efforts of the volunteers who were receiving the refugees and providing first aid. you have given the officers a great deal of credit, and i agree with you on that. these are the european values that are so often upheld in this house. but the european values include the rule of law, and if you turn off the television because you do not want to hear any more criticism of the eu, then of course criticism of the eu does not go away. the right is being violated in europe: it is being violated when the non-assistance clause is being violated in the context of the euro crisis, and it is being violated when the dublin treaty is being trampled underfoot. it is your job, mr juncker, to ensure that this does not happen. you must respect the law, and you must enforce the law. the citizens of europe feel that this is not happening, and that is where the criticism of the eu comes from. it is up to you to dismiss this criticism.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the somewhat chaotic conditions in some parts of our continent have a cause! the member states have not done their homework for too long. there is no common strategy for refugee policy and no appropriate structures have been developed to receive refugees. is this being made up now? the only common position i can see is called "seclusion". mr schmit, you know very well that there are no legal paths for refugees! and yet you denounce refugees as illegal, and in effect demand that the borders must be protected. and what border control looks like in europe, we can see in ceuta and melilla, in calais and in hungary! it is pathetic that we are now giving money to african states, specifically to control their borders. and it's also pathetic that turkey is suddenly a great partner who is supposed to keep us from having any more refugees. and we should take note that refugees in turkey cannot apply for asylum and cannot work, and that, in addition, turkey is also, for many of its own citizens, (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing.– in the first half of 2015, more than 82 000 migrants from the western balkans applied for asylum in germany. these migrants come from eu candidate or potential candidate countries that have a clear european perspective. we need to ensure that the right to seek asylum is respected for those in need of protection, while especially swift and effective return, readmission and reintegration policies for those who do not qualify for protection are put in place. to resolve the migration crisis for now and the future, the eu needs to agree on a joint migration and asylum policy. this policy should set one european procedure for asylum seekers and refugees, ending the discrepancies between national asylum policies. it should include one permanent and binding mechanism that ensures the fair sharing of responsibility to host asylum seekers and refugees, according to each state’s economic and social capacities. an agreement on a joint european list of safe countries of origin will relieve asylum systems and discourage further economic migrants. we have to stop the inflow of asylum seekers from the western balkans. the european union needs to focus its asylum and reception capacities on those who are truly in need of protection.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr. rapporteur, thank you for your cooperation. i think this is a good report, even if it goes a little too far in some places, but we will put them on the right track. i think we need to remind ourselves that paris is not just any other climate event, but that we have the very last chance to get a successor to kyoto. if we fail to do so, the world community will be divided on climate policy. and then europe will suffer the most, because then we may have to go back to national regulations. i therefore believe that the responsibility, mr cañete, as you have just said, is exceptionally great for us and we must seize this real opportunity now, also in terms of competition policy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. and that's what we're trying to mine. we want to harmonise the rules of competition so that europe remains a strong location, in conjunction with the desire to achieve the two-degree target. i am glad that we have not been able to produce a wishiwashi text here today. the danger still exists, but if we pull the right corner, that will not happen and we will be able to produce a targeted text. of course, we need to have binding goals. it would be even better if we in europe did not propose binding objectives, but to tell the south americans to agree to a binding treaty is really illogical. so what we have written here on binding objectives is correct. i do not think that we need to change the fact that we are going to have zero emissions by 2050, and one or two wishes from my group will play a part in that. in conclusion, commissioner, you need an ambitious document to give us an ambitious treaty, to give europe a fair chance in terms of competitiveness and the climate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not climate change is a global problem, and we need global solutions. and that is why we must seize every opportunity in the run-up to cop21 so that this conference of the parties is a success at the end of the day. but this also requires a close look at sectors which are not yet involved. karl-heinz florenz has just mentioned carbon leakage. the cement manufacturers, the aluminium manufacturers, they're all on our mat and they want to claim carbon leakage in these areas. but we have sectors in the european union that are completely exempt. this is air transport, this is shipping, and it's in these sectors that we have the biggest increases in co2 emissions, up to 200-300 percent in aviation. i would therefore ask you, mr canête, to give us the full text of the report so that we can have it in a text at the end of the day. because otherwise it will be very, very difficult for us here in europe to say to the steel sector, to the other sectors: you have to save money, but we have exclusive powers for some economic sectors that are perhaps globally active, that is true in the case of christian shipping, but also in air transport, but here we need clear wording in the text. and otherwise it's going to be very, very difficult for us, in subsequent legislation. we have the ets report on the agenda for next year, which we must get through parliament and through the institutions. i therefore ask you to ensure that these two areas are included in a single document.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. some - perhaps many - of the comments in this debate are a bit pessimistic. of course we must make an effort, of course it will be difficult, and the result in paris will probably not be as perfect as we would like as the european union. but we have a historic opportunity: we have 140 countries that have already announced targets and are already preparing to implement them, including china and the united states. we have a very promising resolution from the g7. we have support, for example, from the papal encyclical. it's a historic opportunity to really make a big breakthrough. the epp supports the pargneaux report. we would like you to table three further amendments. i would also like to respond to the greens. it is not in our interest to make utopian demands here. decarbonisation by 2050 is not realistic. what was decided at the g7 and what the epp put forward was welcomed by everyone, including the environmental associations. why don't we decide that? i would like to emphasize very strongly the point made by some colleagues on air and sea transport, and then make a specific argument: if we implement our climate policy, lime, cement and steel producers will have to cut back by 40%, in some cases even more. they will no longer be able to use cdms international loans , and at the same time, at icao, in air traffic, there is no talk of reduction. that must change, and that is why i support all those who have asked the commissioner to bring this into the process in paris.
i have to say, madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur. the situation is serious and therefore it is urgent that all co2 emitters be included in the climate negotiations. but one of the biggest climate killers is much too little talked about: the carbon-equivalent emissions from global livestock farming. a few figures: there are about 1.5 billion cattle on earth. one cow emits about 400 litres of methane gas a day. so, if you multiply that by 1.5 billion cattle, you get 600 billion liters of methane gas a day. if i multiply that by 25, because methane is just 25 times more polluting than co2, i get 15 trillion liters of co2 a day. so, to exclude the mass farming of animals from the climate negotiations is simply outrageous. so my appeal is that we need to put animal welfare on the agenda to meet climate goals. if we don't, then i can only say that we care more about the steak than the climate, and then we can say, "meal!"
i have to say, madam president, in 1997, i attended the kyoto conference with the then environment minister, angela merkel, and we both advocated specific rather than absolute co2 targets. in the meantime, mrs merkel wants to save the world's climate. it is actually saving the euro, it is saving greece three times over, it is saving the banks through the european banking union at the expense of the german savings banks, and now it is saving the world's refugees. ladies and gentlemen, more and more foreign colleagues in this body are pointing out to me that mrs merkel and the federal government seem to be suffering from a helper syndrome. this has to stop! i would like to take this opportunity to say again that europe should not continue to rely on germany. i would also like to point out - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be divided and abolished.
i have to say, madam president, in the excellent report by gilles pargneaux we called for a price to be put on carbon. it's a disaster that the earth's atmosphere is being used as a dumping ground, that billions of tons of gases are being blown into the atmosphere with no consequence. it's high time that carbon gets a price - either through a certificate system, like we have in the eu, or through a co2 tax or a tax, like other countries do. i would therefore ask you, commissioner cañete: will the eu take initiatives to ensure that we have something in the paris protocol on carbon pricing and a global carbon market? if we had that, the carbon leakage problems would be less because others - especially the main competitors - would also tax the carbon.
president of the council. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank you for asking the president to take part in the debate you wanted to have on the consequences of the court's judgment last week. it will of course be up to the commission in the first instance to inform you of its intentions for the coming months. this is not just a matter for the commission, it is a matter for the council and it is also a matter for the member states and the citizens of europe in the first place. let's not forget them. let me first acknowledge that parliament has regularly raised the shortcomings in the transfer of data from the union to the united states under the safe harbour agreement. even before the snowden revelations, parliament had expressed its concerns about the level of data protection and had asked for the suspension of the agreement until its flaws had been corrected. the court of justice has just declared the commission's adequacy decision on the security sphere invalid. it clearly considered that this decision did not offer sufficient protection of the processing of personal data of european citizens. the consequences of this judgment must be carefully analysed, including by the council. the commission presented a first assessment of its potential consequences at the justice and home affairs council meeting on 9 october. the court's judgment concerns a commission decision. it is therefore primarily for the commission to draw the consequences of the court's invalidation of its decision, and i am sure that the commissioner will do so. the judgment also clarifies the powers of the european supervisory authorities when data is transferred to third countries on the basis of an adequacy decision. it is important that the commission works closely with these authorities to ensure that the judgment is interpreted and applied in a uniform manner. in the meantime, citizens need to be reassured that their data is protected. in addition, companies need to be informed about other legal possibilities for data transfers to the us, in the light of the court's judgment. in the longer term, the commission will have to decide what should succeed the decision on the security sphere which has just been invalidated. the answer to this question will have to be found in close dialogue with the american authorities. whatever formula is adopted to succeed the security area decision, it will have to fully respect the court's judgment. while respecting the principles laid down by the court, the commission will be able to take account of the importance for the economy of a regular and legal flow of data between the united states and the european union. ladies and gentlemen, madam president, the court of justice has pointed out that any instrument of the european union must respect a high level of protection of personal data and be in conformity with the charter of fundamental rights, particularly when such data is transferred to third countries. in this context, the council and the european parliament must continue their work on a new robust data protection framework, with the aim of concluding the negotiations by the end of this year. i believe that with this judgment the completion of this reform before the end of the year is all the more urgent and necessary.
member of the commission.– last week’s ruling in the schrems case reaffirmed the importance of data protection as a fundamental right in the eu, including when personal data is transferred to third countries. the commission respects that ruling and will abide by it, as must all stakeholders. the court has declared the 2000 safe harbour decision invalid, and it can no longer serve as a legal basis for transatlantic data transfers. there can be no ‘business as usual’ approach. immediate steps have to be taken to ensure compliance with the ruling. these are: that citizens need to be assured that their personal data will be protected; and that european businesses needing to transfer personal data to the us need guidance about the remaining legal ways of doing so, with appropriate safeguards and the conditions to be fulfilled. the commission is working closely with the european data protection supervisors in working party 29. we want to ensure clear guidance so that we avoid fragmentation in the internal market. there were good first discussions at technical level last week, and this will continue in the plenary tomorrow, which i will also attend. the commission is also in dialogue with business on this issue. today, together with vice-president ansip and commissioner oettinger, i met a delegation of business representatives to hear their practical concerns and to stress the need to comply with the ruling swiftly. they are worried about fragmentation, and they need guidance as a matter of urgency. i want to use the opportunity of this discussion today to assure you that my objective remains a renewed and robust arrangement for transatlantic data flows, taking into account the requirements set out by our highest court. the us side also needs to address these requirements in its own legal order and in practice. after my first discussions with secretary of commerce penny pritzker, i remain confident that this is possible. i am encouraged by reform steps such as the usa freedom act and the draft judicial redress bill, which specifically addresses the situation of eu citizens. but we will be clear in our discussions with the us partners: we need guarantees that the right to data protection is respected when data is transferred to the us. our benchmark is the court ruling. we will immediately resume and step up discussions with the us, building on the work done so far. i will myself go to washington in mid—november to discuss the issue further with my counterparts there. this is an ongoing debate in the us, as it is in europe. i would therefore ask you too, as members of the european parliament, to engage with your counterparts in the us congress on this issue and to be a partner in this. this is important for our wider relationship with the united states of america, our key strategic partner both politically and economically. i want a more informed debate about this process and i see you as an essential partner in this process. i will keep you regularly informed about the next stages of these discussions.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank the commission and the council very warmly for coming here tonight at the instigation of the epp to discuss this judgment. we need legal certainty, and we also want to know what is going to happen. the verdict itself is not a surprise after all. the commission itself has recognised that it must act here. we've been doing some thinking about the nsa report. the negotiations as such have not yet progressed on the very point which we have criticised in the european parliament, namely, the issue of state surveillance, but not the issue of data transmission as such. we have always called for the abolition of safe harbour, but in my view, of course, always with the condition that it be improved, completely abolished, but then replaced, because for us the free flow of data is also something fundamental. and that's in jeopardy right now. the verdict is basically one or two points. firstly, no transitional arrangements were made at all. this, of course, puts our companies in great legal trouble. the commission has also proposed that the data protection rules should be amended to take account of the new data protection rules. it is also critical to assess the legal obligations that arise from this in general. so maybe encrypting data is enough. i would therefore ask you to lead the citizens of europe back to a safe harbour.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the european charter of fundamental rights is the basis of all european law and action. the european court of justice has once again made this clear. we social democrats have been saying for years that the safe harbour is not a safe harbour for data, it is not a safe harbour for the privacy of our citizens. the so-called nsa revelations have become a farce. european data had become the self-service store for us intelligence agencies - all in the name of so-called national security, without ever being questioned. it is not only about metadata, which is already very sensitive, but also about the content of communication. the commission could never have declared the united states a safe haven for data, as it were, in a handshake. the commission has also proposed that the data protection rules should be amended to take account of the new data protection rules. a state whose authorities monitor people indiscriminately and everywhere cannot be a safe haven. it is now important to consider carefully, to analyse what possible implications this may have for other legal bases for data transfer to the usa. an adequate level of data protection - this too is clear - must be a high level of data protection. in addition to the high level of data protection, we need a right of action in the event of data misuse. there are many consequences to be drawn from this judgment. the irish data protection authority can and must now investigate the complaint lodged by max schrems. it is also clear that the us itself needs to review its legislation and put in place effective controls. this is all the more so as even us officials have admitted that their intelligence services have exceeded the very wide range of their powers. and the commission cannot simply continue as before and review the 13 recommendations in the context of a review of safe harbour; we need to make a fresh start here. for our european data protection reform, this of course also means that we must at least carefully review the rules on data transfers to third countries. and in our member states too, we must re-examine national surveillance programmes in the light of this judgment. conclusion: once again, the ecj has set a standard for the protection of european fundamental rights. the commission, but also the member states, must now implement this judgment consistently.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the ecj has made it clear that the us does not adequately protect the data of european users. this is incompatible with the european fundamental rights. safe harbor, i have to say, is definitely tipped over, and no amount of a nice, wonderful amendment to the agreement can undo the cancer damage that us intelligence agencies, under the label of national security, have access to the data at all times and at all times. that's the problem. we do not need a new safe harbour, but a binding european framework which makes it clear that those who process european data must also comply with the rules here in europe. and we need painful, effective sanctions and penalties for rule violations, because otherwise nothing will move. the ball is not primarily in europe, but also in the united states. we call on the commission and the member states to make respect for european fundamental rights a central condition in the negotiations with the united states. national security cannot be used as a kill switch against effective data protection and the eradication of civil rights. it can't be. the irish high court cannot hide behind a commission decision. that means he has to act when called. this strengthens the independence of data protection authorities, and that is a good thing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i thought it was one-and-a-half minutes but i will try it in one. the good thing is that there is still a safe harbour: this is the safe harbour for digital rights and data protection, and it is called the european court of justice. the bad thing is that it needs a guy who invests quite a lot of money, quite a lot of time and energy for four years of his young life, to get justice for 500 million europeans and everybody on the european market – after 15 years of injustice, obviously. this is very bad news, and i think we should not leave it there. we should not leave it there for another case like the long life of max schrems to fix it, again and again. there should be a solution which is solid, brought forward by the political leaders here present. that should be done quickly, but it cannot be just a quick fix – by saying that the presumption of adequate protection of privacy and data protection in the framework, for example, of us law, can be declared by a commission decision. that is not how to do it: the court has said it is not adequately protecting. so we need first to do own homework – on the regulation on data protection and the consistent application of our laws also to us companies – and then there needs to be another homework done on the other side of the atlantic, by the united states government, to fix the situation via consumer privacy laws and the judicial redress act.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the problem mr preda has just so aptly mentioned is that nothing will really be finished at the end of this year. and yet the paris meeting has at least given us hope that we are moving closer, albeit in smaller steps than we would have liked, to a peaceful and better solution. we have elections in ukraine. of course, and this is self-evident, elections can only take place where democratic principles are upheld, where those who want to stand for election can also stand for election, and not just those who are elected. we have another positive development, namely the agreement on gas supplies and transit, which, thank god, was also made possible because the ukrainian government said that it would take more measures than before to curb the mass gas theft. you have said something, commissioner, about the sums that have been paid and which are important. unfortunately, you have not said anything about the state of the necessary reforms, about the fight against corruption. my main concern is that we are too slow and not moving fast enough. we should try to work with appropriate friendly pressure there too.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you for your assessment. it is true that the normandy format has given rise to signs of relaxation, a general calm in the military situation in donbass and now also the postponement of elections in that region. but this progress has little to do with the european parliament, which has - unfortunately - always refused to recognise that the weakness of minsk ii is precisely that its interim stages must first be negotiated with the various political oligarchic structures in ukraine. the ep delegations were recently able to see on the ground whether and how this is done, and who is interested in what. eu think tanks are also increasingly articulating that things are getting increasingly out of hand, not only in moldova but also in ukraine. the commission has also been active in the fight against corruption and the disintegration of political and economic interests. much has been done in the legal framework, but the implementation of reforms - the much needed reforms - is very slow. it is also the responsibility of this house to take away the latitude from the political rulers in ukraine to do whatever they please in the end. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have just been in kiev for three days and i have to say that the statement by commission president juncker that we should no longer be pressured by the united states into a strategy towards russia but should think about easing sanctions on ukraine has deeply unsettled many citizens who are now actively working on the reform process. and i would like to stress what mr auštrevičius said: what is happening at the moment in the implementation of minsk ii is not a reason to talk about easing sanctions; if something happens, it is still the result of a mixed strategy of diplomacy and sanctions. i hope that no decision will be made in january without significant changes in eastern ukraine to decide on sanctions again, but i would actually be in favor of stopping this whole debate. this would be much better for those involved in the reforms in ukraine, because they need this commitment of the european union for their work. and there's light and shadow. it's just good to read in the newspaper that the minister of economy says that the oligarchs will no longer be involved in the next round of privatisation. that's one word to measure it. it is good that an anti-corruption office has been established. it's good that there's a new police force, one that's paid and not prone to corruption. but the reform of the prosecutor's office is lacking, and the eu must then also put precise pressure and say: hey, poroshenko, what are you always talking about? you want to fight corruption and you don't reform the prosecution that's not how it works! so, sanctions and constructive cooperation on reforms!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to say to those who have spoken before me that russia has violated the territorial integrity of a country and has invaded it by military means. secondly, mr aliot, you and the pro-opposition people who, with the yanukovych government, were blackmailing the country and indulging in corruption and making money disappear, please do not give us any advice. i would also like to say that we have made great progress with the minsk agreements. the conflict has been contained, weapons are being withdrawn, the election date has been cancelled. this is a pause, a ceasefire, which we must take as a positive sign. it must also be said, however, that the sanctions can only be lifted as agreed if minsk is fully implemented. and finally, i would like to say that we must support this country so that, unlike others, it can carry out the reform process it has started, and ensure the rule of law and democracy, and we must help it, as a precondition for ending the destabilisation of the putin system in ukraine, to build a functioning economic order.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the implementation of the minsk agreements and the fight against corruption are indisputable as basic conditions for the prosperous development of ukraine. however, i would also like to draw attention to the economic and social situation in ukraine. because the situation there is worrying! without massive support from the eu and the imf, the country would be insolvent, but the social situation continues to deteriorate. high inflation, rising energy prices and rising unemployment have resulted in about one third of ukrainians now living at or below the poverty line. this is creating a social explosive that urgently needs to be defused. the eu must also play a greater role in this. this means that we must not focus our economic attention solely on the implementation of the association agreements, the economic effects of which are to strengthen the export economy in ukraine in particular, nor on preventing a state bankruptcy. ukraine also needs urgently and additionally support and promotion of domestic economic structures and demand in order to also tackle poverty reduction and employment promotion.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already done so. so, did i understand that you want to eliminate hate on the internet, too? hate crimes, no question, but so is the famous hate speech, hate speech on the internet. you want to follow that, too? the commission is also aware of the fact that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in the european union. the commission is also proposing to make a proposal to the council for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting. how does that work?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. only a few months ago i was at the desecrated jewish cemetery in oldenburg. it was unbearable to see anti-semitic fools rampaging there, desecrating a holy place and trampling on the religious feelings of the people. let us oppose any attempt to perpetuate anti-semitic violence. jews in the eu often enough live under threat and guard, not really free. another point: when we talk about hatred and violence against religions, one group is deliberately ignored, namely, christians. i would like to ask the commission to stop ignoring the christians. up to 200 million christians are persecuted in the world, hatred, violence and discrimination also in europe. let's name it and do something about it. i say it with ovid: principiis obsta defend the beginnings! to equate islamophobia with anti-semitism is an outrage! tolerance for the tolerant, but no tolerance for the intolerant.
i have to say, madam president, we talk a lot about human rights in this house, and it is surprising that an organization that tramples on human rights, let alone a criminal organization, should be allowed to enter this house. ten american states have just cut off its public funding because of this. it's about the ippf, the international planned parenthood federation, which is the umbrella organization of pro familia. the ippf is trafficking in human beings, and trafficking in human beings is not entirely accurate. because before the ippf sells the people or the pieces of it, they kill those people. so the ippf is more like a corpse trade. aborted fetuses are trafficked. that's as criminal as it is outrageous! i call on you, mr president, to withdraw the ippf's official accreditation as a legal entity in this parliament. the ippf is a criminal organization. she's damaging the reputation of this house, she should be drained and convicted rather than tried.
in writing. ‒ in view of the current situation in europe, i have agreed to this request. the significant influx of people currently observed in the individual member states in particular requires that eu citizens are reliably protected against the dangers of terrorism and the spread of crime. i therefore advocate the best possible equipment and cooperation between the competent authorities. this is a clear step towards preventing terrorist activities and protecting citizens within europe.
in writing. ‒ i have approved amending budget no 6 for 2015. the fact that the revenue from customs duties and sugar levies is significantly higher than the projections of the original budget for 2015 makes it necessary to adjust the current budget. it is the only way to plan for the future with confidence. the corrections will not lead to an increase in expenditure in the budget of the european union. the only way to reduce the contributions of individual member states is to reduce them subsequently.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 is a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases and that it results in a change in the distribution of contributions to the union budget between the member states. two new budget lines are established: support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission in the policy areas of development and cooperation and enlargement, which shall be marked with a reminder; a change in the establishment plan of the berec office, without any change in the total number of posts and in the budgetary appropriations. the member states' contributions to the budget will be reduced by eur 2,26 billion compared to the original 2015 budget, as a result of traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) exceeding the expected revenue by eur 1 133,5 million. i have therefore voted in favour of this report. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 is a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, vat and gni bases and that it results in a change in the distribution of contributions to the union budget between the member states. two new budget lines are established: support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission in the policy areas of development and cooperation and enlargement, which shall be marked with a reminder; a change in the establishment plan of the berec office, without any change in the total number of posts and in the budgetary appropriations. the member states' contributions to the budget will be reduced by eur 2,26 billion compared to the original 2015 budget, as a result of traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) exceeding the expected revenue by eur 1 133,5 million. draft amending budget no 6/2015 has no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and only changes the distribution of contributions between member states on the revenue side. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2015 of the european union for the financial year 2015 that it is a revision of the estimates of traditional own resources, the vat and gni bases and that it results in a change in the distribution of contributions to the union budget between the member states; two new budget lines are established: support expenditure for trust funds managed by the commission in the policy areas of development and cooperation and enlargement, which shall be marked with a reminder; a change in the establishment plan of the berec office, without any change in the total number of posts and in the budgetary appropriations. the member states' contributions to the budget will be reduced by eur 2,26 billion compared to the original 2015 budget, as a result of traditional own resources (i.e. customs duties and sugar levies) exceeding the expected revenue by eur 1 133,5 million. draft amending budget no 6/2015 has no impact on the expenditure side of the 2015 budget and only changes the distribution of contributions between member states on the revenue side. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. i voted in favour of the report because i welcome the immediate measures to implement the decisions of the eu summit on the refugee crisis of 23 september. we must urgently provide our local authorities with the necessary support and resources to enable them to carry out the local resolution process effectively. the same applies to our neighbouring countries. however, i would like to stress that there are other measures besides financial ones: we must fight together the causes of flight! the present situation calls for a special act of strength, and this task will occupy us for years. i therefore see the need to revise the budget for the coming years so that we have funds available in the long term.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to use the flexibility instrument. at a time of increasing immigration of refugees to europe, it is crucial that the european union remains responsive and shows that it can respond adequately to a constantly changing situation. since it is not possible to reallocate appropriations due to certain ceilings of the individual budget lines, part of the funds of the flexibility instrument must be used to provide financial assistance. the use of this instrument is expected to amount to eur 66,1 million in 2015 and to a further eur 52,9 million in 2016. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union.
in writing. ‒ council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance specific expenditure which could not be incurred within the ceiling of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. in accordance with article 11 of council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 and point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument after having examined all the options for reallocating appropriations under the heading 'security and citizenship' (heading 3) and after having exhausted the remaining margin. the mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 66,1 million, exceeding the ceiling of heading 3 of the multiannual financial framework, to finance measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the payment appropriations corresponding to this proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument shall be eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014 to 2020 allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance specific expenditure which could not be effected within the ceiling of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. in accordance with article 11 of council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 and point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument after having examined all the options for reallocating appropriations under the heading 'security and citizenship' (heading 3) and after having exhausted the remaining margin. the mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 66,1 million, exceeding the ceiling of heading 3 of the multiannual financial framework, to finance measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the payment appropriations corresponding to this proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument shall be eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ council regulation (eu, euratom) no 1311/2013 of 2 december 2013 establishing the multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020 allows the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance specific expenditure which could not be incurred within the ceiling of one or more headings of the multiannual financial framework. in accordance with article 11 of council regulation (eu) no 1311/2013 and point 12 of the interinstitutional agreement of 2 december 2013 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline, on cooperation in budgetary matters and on sound financial management, the commission proposes to mobilise the flexibility instrument after having examined all the options for reallocating appropriations under the heading 'security and citizenship' (heading 3) and after having exhausted the remaining margin. the mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 66,1 million, exceeding the ceiling of heading 3 of the multiannual financial framework, to finance measures to deal with the refugee crisis. the payment appropriations corresponding to this proposed mobilisation of the flexibility instrument shall be eur 52,9 million in 2016 and eur 13,2 million in 2017. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i have approved this application in its entirety and the accompanying approval of the funding. the eu's provision of comprehensive assistance and immediate action to all relevant institutions is crucial to tackling the current refugee crisis. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2015 and the budget for the financial year 2016, including the estimated budgetary impact of the measures. for example, funding for humanitarian projects is being increased and emergency aid is being provided to affected neighbouring countries. at the same time, other existing support measures will be maintained. the council has also adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a regulation on the european union's external borders, including the amendment of the council's common position on the schengen acquis.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 7 for the financial year 2015 is intended to create the conditions for urgent measures to be carried out in 2015; make use of all possibilities for reallocation without affecting the implementation of other expenditure programmes. the total amount of the appropriations is eur 801.3 million. the requested increases for amif, isf and humanitarian aid will be partly offset by the redeployment. these resources come from the european union solidarity fund, from various budget lines under heading 2 and from the 'food and feed' programme. in addition to the rescheduling, the existing margins under heading 3 (security and union citizenship) and heading 4 (europe in the world) will be used and the flexibility instrument will be used to finance emergency measures. the amount of payment appropriations remains unchanged in 2015 as a large part of the payments will be made in 2016. i have therefore voted in favour of this report. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 7 for the financial year 2015 is intended to create the conditions for urgent measures to be carried out in 2015; make use of all possibilities for reallocation without affecting the implementation of other expenditure programmes. it includes an increase of eur 100 million in the total amount of emergency assistance under the amif and the isf, an additional 120 posts for frontex, easo and europol, an additional eur 300 million in commitment appropriations for the european neighbourhood instrument, so that the european union's regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis (the 'madad fund') is endowed with at least eur 500 million. the total amount of the appropriations is eur 801.3 million. the requested increases for amif, isf and humanitarian aid will be partly offset by the redeployment. these resources come from the european union solidarity fund, from various budget lines under heading 2 and from the 'food and feed' programme. in addition to the rescheduling, the existing margins under heading 3 (security and union citizenship) and heading 4 (europe in the world) will be used and the flexibility instrument will be used to finance emergency measures. the amount of payment appropriations remains unchanged in 2015 as a large part of the payments will be made in 2016. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 7 for the financial year 2015 is intended to create the conditions for urgent measures to be carried out in 2015; make use of all possibilities for reallocation without affecting the implementation of other expenditure programmes. it includes an increase of eur 100 million in the total amount of emergency assistance under the amif and the isf, an additional 120 posts for frontex, easo and europol, an additional eur 300 million in commitment appropriations for the european neighbourhood instrument, so that the european union's regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis (the 'madad fund') is endowed with at least eur 500 million. the total amount of the appropriations is eur 801.3 million. the requested increases for amif, isf and humanitarian aid will be partly offset by the redeployment. these resources come from the european union solidarity fund, from various budget lines under heading 2 and from the 'food and feed' programme. in addition to the rescheduling, the existing margins under heading 3 (security and union citizenship) and heading 4 (europe in the world) will be used and the flexibility instrument will be used to finance emergency measures. the amount of payment appropriations remains unchanged in 2015 as a large part of the payments will be made in 2016. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ draft amending budget (dab) no 7 for the financial year 2015 is intended to create the conditions for urgent measures to be carried out in 2015; make use of all possibilities for reallocation without affecting the implementation of other expenditure programmes. it includes an increase of eur 100 million in the total amount of emergency assistance under the amif and the isf, an additional 120 posts for frontex, easo and europol, an additional eur 300 million in commitment appropriations for the european neighbourhood instrument, so that the european union's regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis (the 'madad fund') is endowed with at least eur 500 million. the total amount of the appropriations is eur 801.3 million. the requested increases for amif, isf and humanitarian aid will be partly offset by the redeployment. these resources come from the european union solidarity fund, from various budget lines under heading 2 and from the 'food and feed' programme. in addition to the rescheduling, the existing margins under heading 3 (security and union citizenship) and heading 4 (europe in the world) will be used and the flexibility instrument will be used to finance emergency measures. the amount of payment appropriations remains unchanged in 2015 as a large part of the payments will be made in 2016. i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because there is an urgent need for action. the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 40% by 2030 is imperative for me; so it's important that paris increases climate finance commitments at the end of the year.
in writing. - i agreed to the request. climate change may become a threat to the international community as a whole. the extent to which climate change is reversible is not yet known. it is therefore all the more important to limit as far as possible the negative changes that are already taking place. this requires rapid and joint action by all states at international level. the biggest emitters of greenhouse gases in particular need to be made more accountable. the agreements to be reached in paris must be legally binding and show a clear commitment to protecting the global climate. europe has already agreed on initial objectives in this context and is setting a good example internationally. it is important that the negotiations for the paris climate conference are well prepared and that the results go beyond mere declarations. i have approved these demands by today's decision.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses key issues ahead of the paris climate conference in december 2015, which is expected to result in a new international climate agreement. topics range from the eu's contribution to emissions reduction to the importance of climate diplomacy. although the ecr shadow rapporteur has signed 14 of the 20 compromise amendments (on issues such as the recognition of human rights in climate policy and the importance of predictable green climate fund investment), i have decided to abstain because some of the issues have proved unacceptable to my party alfa. the alfa leaders nevertheless wanted to be constructive and to communicate their position more clearly to the outside world. that is why we have asked for two separate votes. the first part refers to the increase of the eu-2030 targets agreed by the european council in october 2014. we voted against the increase in the targets agreed by the member states. however, we voted for the linking of the european emissions trading system with other emissions trading systems in order to reduce the potential risks of shifting effects. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses key issues ahead of the paris climate conference in december 2015, which is expected to result in a new international climate agreement. topics range from the eu's contribution to emissions reduction to the importance of climate diplomacy. although the ecr shadow rapporteur has signed 14 of the 20 compromise amendments (on issues such as the recognition of human rights in climate policy and the importance of predictable green climate fund investment), i have decided to abstain because some of the issues have proved unacceptable to my party alfa. the alfa meps, however, wanted to communicate their position clearly to the outside world. that is why we have asked for two separate votes. the first part refers to the increase of the eu-2030 targets agreed by the european council in october 2014. we voted against the increase in the targets agreed by the member states. however, we voted for the linking of the european emissions trading system with other emissions trading systems in order to reduce the potential risks of shifting effects.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses key issues ahead of the paris climate conference in december 2015, which is expected to result in a new international climate agreement. topics range from the eu's contribution to emissions reduction to the importance of climate diplomacy. although the ecr shadow rapporteur has signed 14 of the 20 compromise amendments (on issues such as the recognition of human rights in climate policy and the importance of predictable green climate fund investment), i have decided to abstain because some of the issues have proved unacceptable to my party alfa. the alfa meps, however, wanted to communicate their position clearly to the outside world. that is why we have asked for two separate votes. the first part refers to the increase of the eu-2030 targets agreed by the european council in october 2014. we voted against the increase in the targets agreed by the member states. however, we voted for the linking of the european emissions trading system with other emissions trading systems in order to reduce the potential risks of shifting effects.
in writing. ‒ the report addresses key issues ahead of the paris climate conference in december 2015, which is expected to result in a new international climate agreement. topics range from the eu's contribution to emissions reduction to the importance of climate diplomacy. although the ecr shadow rapporteur has signed 14 of the 20 compromise amendments (on issues such as the recognition of human rights in climate policy and the importance of predictable green climate fund investment), i have decided to abstain because some of the issues have proved unacceptable to my party alfa. the alfa meps, however, wanted to communicate their position clearly to the outside world. that is why we have asked for two separate votes. the first part refers to the increase of the eu-2030 targets agreed by the european council in october 2014. we voted against the increase in the targets agreed by the member states. however, we voted for the linking of the european emissions trading system with other emissions trading systems in order to reduce the potential risks of shifting effects.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday, 14 october 2015.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on friday morning, a coach collided head-on with a truck on a country road near bordeaux. both vehicles caught fire and burned to the ground. in one of the worst bus accidents ever in europe, 43 people - mostly elderly people on a trip to the pyrenees, just a few kilometres from their home - lost their lives. it is precisely because we are here in france that i wish, on behalf of the european parliament, a speedy and complete recovery to the injured who survived the disaster and i express our deepest sympathy to the families of the victims. our thoughts are with the families of the victims and we wish them strength to cope with the terrible loss of their loved ones.
i have decided, pursuant to rule 166, to suspend members korwin-mikke and buonanno from receiving daily allowances for 10 days and from all activities of parliament and its institutions for 10 days as a penalty for having disturbed the proper conduct of the sitting of 7 july and 8 september and 6 and 7 october respectively. (applause from the centre) my decision was sent to the members last week or the week before. mr korwin-mikke and mr buonanno then lodged an internal complaint under rule 167 of the rules of procedure in the form of an objection to that decision. the bureau will decide on these two complaints tonight. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budget is properly managed. we will inform the members of the bureau of the decision without delay and will take the appropriate steps to give effect to it if the decisions are confirmed.
on wednesday i will be signing, together with the president of the council, two acts adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure. the titles of these acts shall be published in the minutes of this meeting. i now have a point of order from mr carthy.
mr carthy, we will of course examine the procedure and then act accordingly.
i thank you very much, mr joão ferreira. i have been informed by my services that you intend to make these requests. i cannot at the moment give you an interpretation of article 130 on this point. i have been informed, however, that an analysis of your request is under way. it will be sent to you immediately.
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 22 october 2015, pursuant to rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. the following amendments were proposed to this draft: monday: no endings. tuesday and wednesday: in agreement with the political groups, i propose that the following amendments to the agenda be made. the two statements by the vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in israel and palestine and the situation in sudan will be brought forward from wednesday afternoon to tuesday afternoon and will be placed on the agenda after the budget debate. the commission's statement on the europe 2020 strategy and the soru report will be moved from tuesday afternoon to wednesday evening, ahead of the commission's statement on access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises. is there any objection to that? that's not the case. then the agenda has changed.
mr. rübig, what are you doing? i shall come back to that when i get to thursday. the epp group requests that a statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign affairs and security policy on georgia and in particular the situation of the television station rustavi 2 be placed on the agenda for wednesday afternoon by means of a resolution.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would ask you to make a delegation first and to do so in the mini-plenary session, despite the intergroup considerations, but to deal with this question this week. because the decision in this somewhat strange legal process is now being made. if we do this in the mini-plenum, the decision is made. then we can protest a decision, today we can perhaps delay the decision. i think that seems to me to be an important matter. it is not good in the context of the eastern partnership that the last non-governmental television station in a country with which we have an association agreement should be shut down. in the year before the election, this seems to me to be a difficult situation and one of fundamental importance for freedom of expression. i know there's a confirmation to do that in the november meeting. but i would ask you to reconsider this because of the urgency of this particular question. i have never asked for priority to be given to urgency, but i am asking that this time it be given, and i ask the members to support this.
we shall put to the vote the request of the epp group to put georgia, and in particular the situation of the television station rustavi 2, on the agenda for wednesday of this week. (parliament rejected the request) the agenda remains unchanged. the gue/ngl group requests that a statement by the vice-president of the commission and high representative for foreign affairs and security policy on the 40th anniversary of the green march in western sahara be placed on the agenda for wednesday afternoon.
then this is how we do it. i would ask you, mrs zimmer, to request that this be included in the preparatory meeting for the conference of presidents which will then discuss this agenda. then we'll see if we can put it on the agenda or not. thursday: mr rübig has just asked that we move the voting time forward by 30 or 45 minutes on thursday. (parliament adopted the proposal) ) i think this is the first time i've seen a unanimous decision here. i am not going to go into detail. i 'd like to draw your attention to two things . the voting hour lasts 30 to 45 minutes. that was my mistake. we'll give them 30 minutes to get there. this, of course, reduces the speaking time of the groups by 30 minutes. i shall forward detailed letters of complaint about the lack of speaking time to all those who have voted here.
mr castaldo, i have to go. i fully understand your request. but i regret to inform you that we have no urgent business on thursday. there are none. thursday morning we have normal discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we'll take that as a matter of principle for next time. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question.
madam member, perhaps you did not hear what i just said. mrs. sander, i've been talking to you for a minute, and unfortunately you're not listening. that's exactly what i just said, thursday afternoon is also a work day. so we are in complete agreement. the order of work is thus established.
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by markus ferber, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards the obligation to exchange automatically tax information (com (((2015) 0135 - c8-0085/2015 - 2015/0068 ((cns)) (a8-0306/2015), the report by jeppe kofod, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion on behalf of the european union of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on rules equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the field of taxation (com ((2015) 0135 - c8-0085/2015 - 2015/0068 ((cns)) (a8-0306/2015), and the report by molly scott, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion on behalf of the european union of the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the swiss confederation on rules equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the field of taxation (com ((2015) 0266/2015) - c8-08-0165 - c8-00165 - c8-0086/2015)) and on the proposal for a directive on the repealtion of the proposal for a directive on the monetary directive (com (2015) 0128-08-08-08-08-08-08-08-08-08-08-08 to be adopted by the council directive (a8-0029/2015) for a directive) of the committee on
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today is the first time we've discussed concrete legislation since the luxleaks affair. that is why i think this is a very important debate, because it is about sending a clear signal here as a parliament, for clarity, for transparency, for fair tax competition in the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax authorities in the member states are able to provide the information required for the tax assessment of a taxable person. i would like to start this debate by expressing my gratitude to the commission, and in particular to the commissioner for competition, for addressing the issue of fair tax competition from the point of view of state aid. because that's all it is in the end. that is why we must do something about it. the commission has put forward a proposal to make all tax rulings with crossborder implications available to the member states in an automatic procedure. i think this proposal by the commission is a good first step. but we have also made a clear statement in the economic and monetary committee in favour of including a wide range of measures. i would like to mention just a few key words: scope. we have advocated that, within the scope of the procedure, all valid tax rulings, in so far as they do not concern natural persons i.e. legal persons , should be included in this procedure. so all tax rulings for legal entities, a significant expansion! we have advocated that the information be exchanged immediately, not every three months as the commission has proposed. we have also asked for additional information to be included here: a tax identification number, deviating tax rates, information where deviations from the normal tax law are applied, and so on. we have explicitly stated that the commission can also use this information in the context of competition law. we consider this to be a very important point, because it is the only way we can exert pressure so that tax law is not applied against the member states or against neighbouring countries, but that everyone is aware that they must also deal with the competition and aid rules when they adopt a tax ruling. i am disappointed - and i want to make this very clear - that the council agreed on 6 october to a proposal which falls far short of what the commission has proposed. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income in the event of tax evasion. the council remains unclear. the commission is proposing to postpone the entry into force of the directive for another year. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income. i'm disappointed in that. i would like to make it very clear that the finance ministers of the member states have not fulfilled the promise, which was repeatedly given here in parliament, in the special committee and in the economic and monetary committee, to contribute to clarity and transparency. that is why i urge the member states to engage in serious negotiations with the european parliament here in order to achieve the best possible result, namely that we arrive at a clear, transparent european model in the field of tax rulings and tax pricing agreements, which does not make tax law a burden on the neighbour, but ensures that each person is taxed according to his capacity where value is created. i am glad that this has found broad support in the committee and i hope that it will also find broad support in the plenary.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, aggressive tax planning has become a major concern within the eu and at the global level, particularly in the context of the work of the oecd and the g20. increasing transparency of tax returns between the tax authorities of the member states is an important - i would even say major - step in the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. the decisions taken by the commission last week in the case of fiat in luxembourg and starbucks in the netherlands are in line with this. the cooperation i have with mrs vestager and her services is excellent. member states now have a margin of appreciation to decide whether an advance ruling in tax matters may be relevant in another eu country, this is called the exchange of information on demand. this lack of transparency in tax records is exploited by some companies to artificially reduce their tax contributions! it has become simply intolerable for our fellow citizens who have been called upon to contribute heavily to resolving deficits during the crisis and who have a civic attitude. that is why we put forward an ambitious proposal in march 2015 to introduce an automatic exchange of information on tax returns between all member states. i would like to thank mr ferber for the quality of his report on this proposal. we have always had fruitful discussions on this subject. the member states reached a compromise on 6 october, a political agreement which i believe is quite appropriate, given that the day before we had the publication of the oecd beps recommendations, which were then adopted by the g20 in lima in the framework of the imf meetings. i agree with mr lamassoure, who is still chairman of the special committee on taxation, that parliament's work in this area has exerted - and i thank you on behalf of all the committees - decisive pressure on the member states to reach an agreement. parliament was not at the ecofin council table, but the spirit of parliament was reflected in its decisions. this political agreement - it must be taken as it is - is a strong, strong signal from the european union: it has enabled us to present in lima a common and ambitious european union front for greater tax transparency, and i was able to encourage our partners at the g20 meeting to do the same and to turn this european initiative into a global or world standard. mr ferber expressed disappointment, which was somewhat mitigated by mrs ferreira, and i would like to respond to that. of course, you have raised three points: first, the desire to go beyond crossborder tax returns to encompass all tax returns, secondly, a regret that the retroactivity period was not longer and, finally, a nuance about the fact that we could have gone faster in the implementation of this text. the commission does not disagree with you, mr rapporteur. it is true that the commission's initial proposal went further than what was adopted by the council, but ladies and gentlemen, you know how the council works. the procedure is very complicated, decisions on taxation must be adopted unanimously, and in this case we did so not only unanimously but very quickly, since it took seven months between the submission of the commission's proposal and the adoption of this text by the ecofin council, and the commission agreed to this compromise. why would you do that? because we feel that the main principles of our proposal are retained in this text, including the automatic exchange of tax records, including the broad scope covered, including the exchange of information between all the member states, including the involvement of the commission and this has been discussed at one time or another. there is a good deal of retroactivity, ten years would have been better in my eyes than five, but five - forgive me for the lappiness as we say in french - were better than the three years that were offered to us at one time and that would have begun to be problematic. finally, there is the implementation timetable. i had hoped that the text could enter into force by the end of the first quarter of 2016, but the states argued - which is not entirely wrong, to be honest - the time limits for transposition and voting of such texts. in the end, i would say that this is a reasonably ambitious compromise which does not lead to - it was essential to me and to the commission, and i can assure you that we would not have agreed to anything else - to distort our proposal; it is a compromise of good quality, which marks a very significant step. i would like to stress that the commission's involvement was maintained in the compromise text. i think this is good news for the commission, but also for the general interest and for the european parliament, because this involvement is essential to monitor the functioning of the directive, it increases the credibility of the commitment of the member states, and it is fully supported, i know that by you, the european parliament, and i wanted to thank you for that. if we had remained in a pure exchange between member states, without the involvement of the commission, the risk - how to say - that the administrations would work together not in collusion but with sometimes some accommodation could not have been totally eliminated. let me say a few words about the other two reports we are discussing today. firstly, the agreement signed on 27 may between the european union and switzerland on the automatic exchange of financial information is a historic agreement which marks - and i believe that for our fellow citizens, it is extremely symbolic - the end of swiss banking secrecy for residents of the union. this is a major step in the fight against tax evasion, in line with the objective of ensuring fairer taxation for our citizens. i am glad that the rapporteur, mr kofod, shares this analysis in his motion for a resolution in favour of the conclusion of the agreement and i would of course urge this house, your parliament, to follow the opinion of the committee on economic and financial affairs and to give its full support to this initiative. we also proposed the repeal of the provisions of the savings tax directive, as the measures of the directive on the automatic exchange of financial data adopted at the end of 2014 will come into force from next january. i have some experience in this area, having been minister of finance in a previous life not so far away. firstly, it is regrettable that the savings tax directive was adopted so late that it became obsolete immediately after its adoption. this should be a lesson to us that we must act quickly and decisively in this matter, but it turns out that the new standard goes beyond what the savings tax directive could bring about and so i welcome the report by mrs scott cato, whom i thank, which advocates the withdrawal of this directive. i would like to make a small point, and she will understand it: i think that the way you have spoken about the president of the commission, jean-claude juncker, is a little hasty, and i will rely on what the taxe committee will say, which, i recall, has heard the president who has come to explain himself to it. i think that when you speak of the head of such an important institution, there are words that you have to be able to master and adjust. the commission will report to the council and parliament on the effectiveness of the measures it is required to present on the operation of the automatic exchange of information on the basis of the obligations laid down by the directive on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. in the meantime, the commission will not fail to take advantage of the opportunities provided by the structured dialogue with parliament and its committee on economic and financial affairs to inform the members of your institution without delay of any significant developments. in short, i think that we are discussing today a major and innovative approach. i call it the transparency revolution: there is public pressure, there is the evolution of technology and the media, but also the role of your parliament, the will of the commission and the fact that the member states are also feeling obliged to act. i am convinced that with our joint action - and we thank the rapporteurs and the various parliamentarians once again - this revolution of transparency will not stop. i would add that the political will of the commission - and mine in particular - is to continue to move forward resolutely during the five years of this commission's mandate. i am also thinking of the principle of effective taxation, which means that the profits of companies, particularly multinational companies, should be taxed where they are created, and of the relaunch of the accis/cctb project, which is important both for transparency and for economic efficiency. i am thinking, finally, of the issue of the publication of information by country, on which the commission is taking a stand and on which i have also had the opportunity to express my views. this is a revolution in transparency and today we are making a step forward, but we do not see this as the end of the battle.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate today is not only about mr ferber's report, to whom i would like to extend my warmest congratulations on his successful work on this important dossier, but also about the automatic exchange of information with third countries on financial accounts in the european union as a whole. this is an incredibly complex issue, and we must be careful not to lose sight of the basic logic of cooperation in the european union, the basic logic of the european single market. for many, the details of the legislation we are talking about here are not really the decisive factor, but the decisive factor is that for the workers and for the companies the european single market remains the home market we promised them years ago. and i think we must be careful, commissioner, that we do not fall back into the pre-1993 logic of the country-by-country reporting model you have just mentioned, and force companies to put individual national rules before the european whole. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i think it is a good thing that the commission has taken the initiative in this matter, and i hope that the commission will take the initiative in this matter. i would therefore urge you, commissioner, to continue and carry on the process which began with the gibraltar judgment of the european court of justice. we're not done here. third countries such as switzerland are of course also included.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the decision last week against starbucks and fiat is nothing less than a turning point for me. because so far, we've heard from so many people that the behavior of the past may have been illegal, but it wasn't illegal. the european commission made it clear in its decision last week that we are dealing with illegal actions by states together with companies. if the member states are now serious about their widely-proposed demands for changes in tax rulings, more transparency and fairer tax competition, then one is surprised that the european commission is not fully involved in the automatic exchange of information at this point. the commission's success in the abovementioned aid procedure was due to the fact that it was able to act as the guardian of the contracts on the basis of direct competition law. if the member states now prevent the commission from being fully informed, they are deliberately not wishing to sharpen this sword any further. they must be asking themselves why. the same applies to the question of the extent to which tax rulings are exchanged retroactively. if we look at the procedures now known, and also those which have been decided, and look at the time when the advance tax rulings were issued, then these are periods which go back further than the five years whose advance tax rulings are now to be exchanged. the question is, is the purpose of this short period of time to prevent more light from entering the darkness? we cannot afford to be complacent as a parliament, and we support the commission on this point in terms of full information exchange, including on the issue of past rulings. i think that without transparency, without this exchange, we will never be able to change these practices in europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
madam president, this debate, this report, is about justice, about tax justice - about the fact that each taxpayer, according to his ability, bears the burdens that are necessary to finance our common system. we know from the luxleaks documents and from the european commission's investigations, the first parts of which were published last week, that this justice has been massively violated and that the european commission has unlawfully used state aid in the first cases, fiat financial services and starbucks. but there are many other cases to follow. i do not understand at all why the council has decided not to make the european commission's crossborder tax rulings available. his european competence is to ensure fair competition. its european competence is an obligation to refrain from illegal state aid. the european commission must also be informed. we can't have suspects being their own judge. we need the european union's competence, the european commission's competence, to prevent distortions of competition and to ensure tax justice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has also concluded that the contested tax ruling does not constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. but above all, there is a negative impact on competition because small and medium-sized enterprises that are only active nationally or that cannot or do not want to use these tax administration models have disadvantages that add up to 20 to 25%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the automatic exchange of information is an important aspect of this, a necessary but not sufficient condition. we have learned, for example, during our visit to switzerland that in the 1950s a concordat was agreed on fair tax competition between the cantons, including the automatic exchange of information between the cantons. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. we call on the commission to press for the abolition of the derogations which the council has now requested. the rule that is now on the table is as porous as swiss cheese or dutch cheese, and it urgently needs to be corrected.
i have to say, madam president, spontaneous information sharing hasn't worked for 38 years, and the eu commission has been stuck with it, until luxleaks. this shows that the eu is only going to do something if the dirty laundry is aired. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax authorities are able to comply with the rules on the taxation of profits. tax deals with government are not private. the finance ministers protected the tax bazaar as long as their corporations could also forcefully tax. we have seen in committee that mr juncker has been able to tell his fairy tales without the majority of this house wanting to call him back. the multinational corporations have treated us like little schoolboys. we are still not getting adequate access to the documents either. that's why words must be followed by deeds. this is a small step for parliament, but far too small for the honest taxpayers of europe. that is why my group will not rest until the tax cartel in europe has been finally eliminated.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a few remarks, perhaps of a political nature, before a few points of clarification. firstly, i entirely share the feeling which has emerged from this debate, and which has been expressed by mrs goulard in particular, that we are facing a major issue of trust. it is true that our fellow citizens tend to distrust public opinion. it is also true that there is this sense of injustice that many europeans may feel, who were called upon to contribute heavily during the crisis, while multinational companies, because they have extensive legal services, can use inequalities, gaps in the tax legislation of this or that member state to evade tax, pay little or no tax, where they create profits. yes, what we do - i mean we do - together is essential to rebuilding trust. i would add that it is also a question of reducing inequalities and, finally, a question of efficiency. as far as tax evasion is concerned, we do not have the figures, because they are extremely difficult to obtain. moreover, we will have more data after the transparency process has been completed, since, by definition, there is a lot of data that is unknown. tax evasion, i believe, is a significant source of revenue for public finances at a time when fiscal consolidation remains an imperative in the european union, particularly in the euro area, but not only in the euro area. from day one, this commission has placed tax justice, transparency and the fight against tax evasion among its priorities, and i mean here - the authors of these interventions are no longer present - that i believe that, as much as criticism and democratic debate are justified and legitimate, we must beware of populism, amalgamation and stigmatisation. we need institutions. we cannot be satisfied with anti-elite reflexes or denouncing this or that personality. and the commission is acting on this matter in a manner which, believe me, is entirely determined and in good faith. i am naturally here as tax commissioner, because that is my place, but i have the full confidence of president juncker and carte blanche to move forward in a determined way, and i am working hand in hand with my colleague margrethe vestager; that's how we have to work. i take this opportunity to reply to mrs joly, who is very pleased to see me here. she often talks to me indirectly, but i can tell her that the fight against tax evasion should not be confused with the fight against the commission. i am convinced that the commission and the european parliament have a joint, and i would even say side by side, job to do in this matter. moreover, since you mentioned our cooperation within the taxe committee, i should like to point out that an agreement has been reached with the chairman of that committee so that members of the european parliament can have access to the documents they want. last week we made another 89 documents available to meps: the commission's approach to transparency is complete, and it is also necessary to take account of the member states and the need for confidentiality of certain data held by companies. finally, i would like to say a word about the member states. i have heard them criticized here and i myself said to mr ferber just now how much i could share his particular regrets and how much i would have liked - that was the meaning of the commission's original proposal - to go further on this or that subject. i'll get back to you. but at the same time, the member states, they exist. and i regard this agreement on tax rescripts, this compromise - which i repeat is of good quality - as an important signal that the member states are also ready to commit themselves to these objectives, and i welcome it. i'm starting to get a little experience in european affairs. i first sat in this parliament in 1994. i was a member of the council for seven years, including the 1990s. i have never, ever, seen a tax bill passed unanimously in seven months with such a sustained quality. it is proof that what you, the members of the european parliament, and indeed mrs joly for a long time, what the commission is doing and what it is doing in a determined way is making a difference. so i understand the criticism, i understand the regret, but i also say that we must consider today as an important day and that the report you are about to adopt must also underline, if you decide, that we are going in that direction. i would like to thank parliament for its contribution to what i consider to be a successful outcome. i also thank parliament for its support for european measures to combat tax evasion and for the attention paid to preventing the use of techniques to evade these measures. some answers, now, a little more detailed, to some questions put by members of the european parliament. first, the question of scope, which seems to me to be the most important point raised by mr ferber's report at this stage. the rapporteur believes that the directive should cover all tax returns and not just cross-border tax returns. it is true that in this respect the commission itself proposed to limit the scope of the mandatory exchange of information on cross-border tax rulings and transfer pricing agreements. the council's compromise text also targets these crossborder decisions covering a wide range of such decisions. why is that? i would say first that the extension to non-cross-border decisions would have had, and would have, the effect of increasing the administrative burden of public authorities considerably, without perhaps allowing the tax authorities to concentrate or to focus their attention on the main issues. we have also acted on the legal basis provided by the treaty, which is the legal basis of the internal market. the question is whether the other rewrites could be affected by this legal basis. i do not think, however, that we have reached the end of history, mr rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen. i think it is quite appropriate that the european parliament should continue to insist on this aspect, since at a later stage we may have to go further on an appropriate legal basis. the commission, through me, is defending this position. on the subject of retroactivity, another important point made by mr ferber, the council's compromise text provides for a five-year retroactivity, which is shorter than the ten years suggested by the commission. but i draw your attention to a point that you will not have missed by the way: we are facing a wider field that covers not only all the rescripts still valid issued since 2012, but also those that are no longer valid if they were handed over between january 1, 2014 and december 31, 2016. the compromise also provides for an exemption for smes with a net annual turnover of less than eur 40 million, except for those which are principally engaged in financing and investment activities. that is what led us, and led me, in the discussions in the council to take account of the arguments that were put to us, and i think that in the end a five-year period, combined with the exemption for smes, with the wider scope of the rewrites, allows for a balanced and solid compromise, and that is why the commission went along with that compromise. mr bayet asked me about a tax identification number. the commission proposal does not include a provision on the use of a european tax identification number. why would you do that? for one simple reason: because such a number does not yet exist today. however, this is a technical but also a political issue on which the commission has been working since its 2012 action plan to combat tax fraud and tax evasion. it is a very important procedure, but we could not and cannot wait for such a number to be set up before we start exchanging information on the transcripts. finally, two points: firstly, the question of sanctions, which was raised by several of you and which was already raised, as i recall, at my first hearing before the committee on taxation. the mechanism we have chosen is a mechanism that addresses the impact that transparency can have on the behaviour of multinationals. i'm betting here and i think he's gonna win, that's what it's all about. the effect of transparency will be - contrary to gresham's law, which, as you know, chases good money in favour of bad money - to eliminate bad scripts, i am convinced, that is to say those that lend themselves to abusive or aggressive uses in favour of forecasting techniques, of anticipating the position of companies, which are not in themselves reprehensible. we didn't choose to ban rewrites, we chose transparency. as for the commission's presence in the system, i can assure you that i fought a hard battle against those who thought it was superfluous. the presence of the commission ensures that there is an arbitrator somewhere who can then initiate proceedings. and that is why the work we are doing together with my colleague margrethe vestager is the demonstration by proof that such mechanisms can exist, and we will obviously have a stronger basis with the new directive, which i believe will be adopted following the commission's proposal, the council's agreement and your own report. finally, i would remind you that the fight for transparency is a fight that will not stop. i have spoken here of a revolution in transparency, and i can assure you of our political determination, the commission's, my personal political determination, to go all the way. i repeat what i said in our introductory remarks, namely that this commission wants to take over the accis or ccctb project, including the consolidation that is needed by companies for reasons of both transparency and efficiency. i repeat that this commission wants to show what the principle of effective taxation can bring. we are in an absurd situation where too many multinational companies, for reasons you know, do not pay, or pay little tax where they create profits. again, it's a matter of trust that needs to be resolved. finally, this commission is working on the publication of country-by-country information. i ask the european parliament for a little more patience and a little more confidence. my colleague jonathan hill and i wanted to set up a process which, it is true, begins with consultation and must be followed by an assessment, a test and an evaluation. the question is not to avoid the issue, but to see under what conditions the publication of country-by-country information can reconcile transparency and economic efficiency without penalizing the investment of companies which is necessary for employment. i have made a very clear political preference, namely that advertising means public access. but we also have to take account of economic realities. we are therefore faced with a choice: either we follow what the oecd says, which proposes, i remind you, to stick to exchanges between administrations, or we go further - i repeat, this is my personal preference, provided that it does not penalise businesses. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i thank you for your participation in this debate, and i thank the rapporteurs and the fictitious rapporteurs for their work. i think that, despite the differences and nuances, we all agree that there is a new political approach that allows us to go further, go stronger and go faster. you're part of it.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i should like to thank you for your cooperation with my report. i am very sorry, and i want to make this very clear, that the council seat is empty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is very unfortunate, because the council must learn that the european parliament is also a serious partner in tax matters. i have tried to make this role clear in my reporting. i would like to thank my shadow reporters for the good time we had together. we have managed to tackle this complex subject here in a very short time. i hope that we will then be able to send a clear signal to the council by a large majority in the plenary tomorrow. i would like to say again that we are sending this signal to the council, not to the commission. the commission has done its homework on the tax rulings. the council should, however, reconsider its political agreement of october and take up some of the points we are asking for as a parliament. this would be a great win for tax honesty, tax fairness and transparency in europe. that should be in the interest of the member states too.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is not i am sorry to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to ask the commissioner to take a decision on the matter. i can agree with mr ferber that we are working with the commission on this site, that we are happy with many of the things we have achieved, but that we are also putting our finger in the wounds where we think we have not gone far enough. as regards the work of the taxe special committee, i have just received a piece of news today which is a little puzzling to me and which may well influence our future work. i thank the commission for its efforts to make the documents requested by parliament available to us, in the interests of transparency, within the limits of what is possible under the interinstitutional agreement. today i learned that the same documents, some of which were not available to us or were only blacklisted and only available in the reading room, were issued for research purposes to research institutions which would normally have requested them in the context of access to public documents by citizens of the european union. if that's the case, we have a problem! i know that you cannot answer this question explicitly here today, but we will write to you. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we accept the interinstitutional agreement. but if there is a public beyond that, i can say at this point that we will insist on being treated as third parties. it is the dignity of this house that demands it.
in writing. i support the agreement signed in may 2015 and hope that it can be implemented as soon as possible. we need a legal basis on which to take effective action against tax evasion. the abolition of banking secrecy is an important step in the fight against tax evasion. only with more transparency and fair rules will we be able to make tax evasion a thing of the past in the not too distant future.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am glad that we can vote tomorrow on the recast of the package travel directive. the changes in the travel market and the increasing trend towards online booking have made it urgent to modernise and adapt the 1990 directive. a variety of new and online booking models have emerged that are not covered by the protection of the current directive. today, instead of just the traditional package, the various elements of a trip can be combined to suit the traveller's wishes. the revised rules will strengthen travellers' rights across europe. new booking models are now included in the scope and travellers are more comprehensively and better informed about their rights. however, we have also succeeded in taking account of the economic interests of the providers - for example, tour operators, travel agencies or hoteliers - so that the result obtained takes account of both their interests and those of the travellers. the parliament's negotiating team was convinced that click-through bookings should be included in the scope of the directive and treated as a standard package. click-through bookings are bookings on the internet where certain data of the booking party is automatically transmitted. so if you book a flight first and then a second travel service, such as a hotel, the name of the traveller and the payment methods are automatically transferred. we want to have the same liability and the same insolvency protection as a package holiday, because this kind of booking gives the impression that you are booking a package by clicking through to the next website. the council had initially opposed the equalization of click-through bookings. this would have meant that in such a case there would have been no liability and no insolvency protection for the entire package. it would have been the reduced form. the booker, the traveller, would have had to contact the respective provider to obtain his rights. we were able to reach a compromise by adding the e-mail address in addition to the name and payment methods. we have had a very difficult time with this question from parliament, because we cannot exclude the possibility that the very narrow definition of click-throughs now gives rise to circumvention. this is why we could only agree to the compromise if the commission - it promised - after three years, carried out a review to see what the result of click-throughs is, whether it is recorded, whether it is not recorded, whether it needs adjustments or extensions of the definition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have, for example, introduced the definition of ancillary services which are not intended to justify a package. we have been able to make it clear that it makes no difference whether you rent a car or a motorcycle; together with a flight or accommodation booked, this combination automatically becomes a package. we have introduced a uniform right of withdrawal, whereby the consumer can withdraw from the contract free of charge if the price is subsequently increased by more than 8%. we also managed to secure better conditions for the consumer in the case of exceptional and unavoidable circumstances on the ground. if the organiser is unable to return the package traveller in the event of exceptional unavoidable circumstances, the package traveller will now have to bear the costs of the extended stay of up to three nights. in the light of the 2010 ash cloud, such a regulation was important to us. parliament had asked for five nights, the compromise was three, but with the restriction that if, for example, the airline directive were to enforce five days, then that would also apply here. i would like to take this opportunity to express my special thanks to the latvian presidency and the negotiating team in the council, to my colleagues in the commission, to our staff in the imco committee who were effectively available at all times, to my shadows and their staff and to the staff of our political groups. the negotiations were very intense. nevertheless, despite initial differences, we were able to reach a satisfactory agreement. i would ask you to give your consent to the report tomorrow. thank you very much.
member of the commission.– mr president, tourism is an important sector of the european economy. the 1990 package travel directive gave consumers important rights regarding pre—arranged packages and established a legal framework for the package travel sector. i am speaking now on behalf of mme jourová, who cannot be here, and i wish to applaud her for the job that has been done. digital technologies have changed the way in which we organise our travel. today, consumers are increasingly seeking customised combinations of travel services online instead of ready-made products from a travel brochure. this is increasingly tending to mean that travellers are either not protected by the directive or else the protection is unclear. that is why it was necessary to modernise the existing eu rules on package travel so as to make them fit for the present digital age. the new directive on which you will vote tomorrow will offer protection not only for pre—arranged packages, but also for customised combinations of travel services, known as dynamic packages, especially if they are booked online. at the same time, the new directive will provide a minimum level of protection for linked travel arrangements which are looser combinations of travel services. there will be clear information for travellers on whether they are being offered a package with full protection or a linked travel arrangement with limited protection, including compulsory standardised information. these changes will double the share of protected trips in the eu from 23% to 46% and will bring almost 120 million additional trips a year within the scope of the directive. furthermore, the right of travellers who buy a package will be improved and clarified. there will be clearer rights for travellers when something goes wrong during the trip and improved termination rights. travellers will be entitled to extended accommodation for at least three days if the return journey cannot be carried out on time because, for example, a natural disaster. there will also be explicit rules on liability for booking errors. as agreed during the interinstitutional negotiations, i would like to confirm that when revising the 2009 guidance on the application of directive 2005/29/ec on unfair commercial practices, the commission will also address the issue of commercial practices whereby travel services providers who market their services online offer additional services in an unclear or ambiguous manner, such as hiding the option of not booking any further services, and the commission will inform parliament on how its views have been taken into account when the revised guidance is adopted, which is fast. travel businesses will also benefit from the new directive. outdated requirements for travel brochures will be abolished and managed business travel will be exempted from the directive. finally, increased harmonisation, for instance with regard to precontractual information requirements, in the light of the rules, as well as the mutual recognition of the insolvency protection obtained in other member states will facilitate cross–border transactions, thereby enhancing consumer choice. ladies and gentlemen, the text that is now presented to you for adoption is the result of very intensive and, i must say, sometimes difficult negotiations and compromises between the council and parliament. i would like to extend my thanks in particular to mrs birgit collin-langen, the rapporteur on this file, the shadow rapporteurs, and mrs vicky ford, the chair of the internal market and consumers committee who all were instrumental in coming to an agreement with the council.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. i would also like to begin by thanking all those who have contributed to this dossier, which has been under discussion for many years. this was in the last parliamentary term of my colleague hans-peter mayer, and then it passed into the really excellent hands of birgit collin-langen, who made this dossier a really acceptable compromise. i would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the work of the committee on budgets and the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report. it is right that with this revision of the package travel directive we are adapting to the digital age, as more and more tourists book their travel via the internet, and in doing so they enter into a cascade of links which link more and more services which they consider to be linked services, and the breakdown of which would end up in a really difficult situation for them at the time of travel. we are taking this directive - with the restrictions mentioned by the rapporteur - really fully into account. however, the definition of package holidays as we have now adopted, of course also for small tourism companies, such as small alpine hotels or small hotels in the black forest of a region from which i come , creates the difficulty that if the customer not only booked the hotel for two nights but also wanted to have the visit to the swimming pool opposite the hotel handled, a package holiday could also have been concluded in the end. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am confident that this will succeed. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much, mr rübig, for this question. i believe that legal certainty in a large market dominated by many consumers is always the best way to promote growth in that market. i think that is why we can say that the rule of law will benefit everyone. i would like to say, however, that it will certainly become more important for small and mediumsized travel agencies to take out insurance policies on a case-by-case basis, but i do not think that the cost of such insurance policies should be overestimated. of course, in some cases it may be difficult for hoteliers who still operate under national rental law to bring this into line with european rules. i believe that the hoteliers in europe are all man enough to meet this challenge, and i wish it to all of them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the amendment of this directive is a very important step forward in taking account of the way in which citizens are now shaping their travels online. this is an important question. i very much welcome the progress made in this area. however, there is still a problem: the definition of the trips provided here is very open, so that there are many loopholes for those who do not want to take our right so seriously. that is why it is right and good that we have said that by 2018 at the latest we must re-examine whether we are really up to date or whether we do not have to make an adjustment to the law for these click-through orders.
member of the commission.– mr president, i agree with all members who believe that we should speak more about tourism and adapt the supply and demand to the new digital era in which we live now. i am grateful for the support for the new directive which, as far as i understand, has been expressed during this debate. bearing in mind the divergent expectations and concerns of the different stakeholder groups and the different aspects we had to take into account, i am convinced that we have achieved a more-than-respectable result. following tomorrow’s vote by the european parliament, the commission’s next task will be to ensure the timely and correct transposition of the new directive by the member states. you may be sure that the commission will take this duty very seriously and will offer its assistance and support to the member states.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. first of all, thank you for your comments. let me summarize briefly. firstly, in view of the changes in the travel market, in particular the trend towards online booking, a revision of the package travel directive is essential. secondly, the present recast of the directive puts the balance between the interests of consumers on the one hand and those of suppliers on the other on a new and sound basis. it is balanced and meets the interests of both sides. i am aware of the concerns of the smaller hoteliers, particularly in austria and in some cases in germany, and also of the travel agencies in germany. we have incorporated into the directive many, many suggestions put forward by the organisations there and we have been in very, very close contact on a regular basis, particularly with hotrec in austria. i am firmly convinced that the remaining problems of transposition into national law must be solved. but we've created an opening everywhere that you can work on. this directive reaffirms the importance which the european union attaches to consumer protection. many directives in this area have already been transposed into national law. the eu is now taking on another task, the practical significance of which cannot be underestimated. i would like to thank once again - and this is particularly important to me - all those who have contributed to the drafting of this directive as shadow rapporteurs, assistants and staff. it was difficult at times, but there was always a friendly, constructive working environment, so i think that's certainly a reason for the result. we shall vote on the directive tomorrow in early second reading. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the directive.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: exports of torture equipment, medicinal chemicals for so-called poison cocktails for executions - many eu citizens cannot imagine such goods being exported from the eu today. the council regulation regulating these horrible exports unfortunately still has gaps, and it is precisely these that we want to close. i therefore call on the commission to take up the european parliament's proposals, in particular to prohibit the advertising and promotion of these goods at fairs and on the internet, and to prohibit further training and education in the use of goods intended for the execution of the death penalty and torture. but above all, we need a targeted end-use clause. this would allow member states to stop the transfer of instruments of torture not explicitly listed. this would close loopholes, including for products that will be developed in the future for torture and execution.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur from the committee on international trade (inta) as well as from the committee on human rights (droi), who i think have been doing really tremendous work because, in this file, we can see that trade policy can actually do something good; that it can contribute to the coherence that we need to have with respect to our values in the world. torture, indeed, is a main human rights violation, and we need to do everything we can inside the european union to stop torture and also executions from happening elsewhere – and goods being produced here can be used elsewhere for those purposes. with this update of the laws, i think we have taken a very good step, and this is mainly due to the work of the european parliament, which has been very insistent. but i also think that we could have done even better, because we should still forbid advertising for those goods outside the european union – that must be the next step. what is very good is to have the catch-all clause to have the possibility to prevent new goods going out and being used for torture or execution. i think now we, as parliament, have set the right pace, and i ask the council and the commission to be constructive partners in the trilogue to achieve better legislation that is coherent with our values.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on legal affairs. mr president, mr vice-president of the commission! we want and need more citizen participation in the european project. it is therefore of fundamental importance to draw conclusions from three years of the citizens' initiative. the citizens' initiative needs more than aesthetic corrections to have the effect we want. the emi regulation needs to be revised in a general way. the organisers of citizens' initiatives need comprehensive support, including legal advice through appropriate contact points in the member states. they must be able to decide for themselves when to start the campaign after registering their eic. the signature for a citizens' initiative should no longer be linked to the provision of a personal identification number in any country. and, mr vice-president of the commission, we need to send a clear signal to young people. they should be able to support a citizens' initiative anywhere in the eu at the age of 16. the report before parliament is very good, and i hope that the commission will indeed take up our proposals quickly, because, mr timmermans, the citizens' initiative must now be taken out of its infancy, it must become a genuinely citizen-friendly instrument.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have been a member of the european parliament for the german constituency for a little over a year. whenever possible, i travel between aachen and görlitz, between flensburg and oberammergau. i often hear: you are the first member of the european parliament who is really interested in us, otherwise europe is so far away, what are we supposed to change? i am convinced that the european union is not only a democratic country, but also a democratic country. we must dare to be democratic! i am all the more pleased that we are discussing this today, inspired by a campaign launched by 70,000 european citizens. thank you for that. their call is clear: the european citizens' initiative must be made simpler, less bureaucratic and more effective. do not think the citizens are stupid! we have to involve them, but then say, "that's nice, but we're not going to implement anything". you can't do that! that is why i am calling for democracy, for the creation of the european popular will, and not just every five years in the european elections.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, let me reiterate what i said at the beginning: the commission is prepared to work very closely with mr schöpflin and parliament to see to what extent we can apply the improvements his report suggests to the citizens’ initiative. i look forward to working closely with parliament to make sure that, where we can, we will improve the initiative, and probably we will have to look at the regulation at some stage. the commission will certainly not shy away from doing that if it is considered necessary. at the same time, you can turn the initiative into something it is not and then be critical of the fact that it is not what you want it to be, but it is in fact quite straightforward: it is based on the treaty. the treaty is something all member states agreed on, signed and ratified in the national parliaments. we cannot go beyond the treaty, even though it would perhaps be nice to go beyond the treaty. the commission is responsible for applying the rules in the treaty, and the rules in the treaty say that the european citizens’ initiative is an instrument to involve citizens in dialogue. it is not an initiative to give citizens the right of initiative in legal matters: that is a different animal. if you are not happy with that animal, fine, but do not accuse the animal of not being what you want it to be. it was intended to be an addition to representative democracy, to make sure that people get involved in the debate in representative democracy, not an alternative to representative democracy. i am quite sure this parliament would not want to put itself in an outside position and leave all that to citizens directly. i think the deal here is that we involve citizens in a dialogue about policies. if the commission applies the rules – and yes, it happens unfortunately quite a lot – we have to say that the initiatives taken are not within the existing rules. we can change the rules, and we will look into that. we can assist people taking initiatives in overcoming bureaucratic hurdles and other problems, and we certainly want to try to improve that. we have been trying already, and we receive all persons taking an initiative to advise them. sometimes we also help them amend the questions, saying that if they reformulate them slightly then we can say they are within the rules. we are trying to be very cooperative with those who take initiatives, but you cannot blame the commission for applying the rules. we would be amiss if we did not apply the rules simply because it would be nice to let people take initiatives. i will have to be firm on this, but i want to reiterate our willingness to work closely with mr schöpflin and his colleagues to make sure that we improve the system. i still see a lot of potential in this instrument. it is far too easy after a relatively short period of time to dismiss the instrument because it is not what one wants it to be. do not make it bigger than it is, but do not disqualify it before we have done everything we can to make it work better, as is the intention of mr schöpflin and the others who supported him in making the report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 28 october 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. citizens' participation in policy and legislation: this is not always the desired outcome. in germany, the civil coalition was a major material enabler of 'one-of-us'. i speak from experience. although 'one of us' was authorised as legally binding, the same christian-democratic barroso commission intervened a year later and refused to submit the requested legal acts. one of us is now pending before the ecj (t-561/14). right: if an eif is authorised on the basis of its legally sound argumentation and more than 1 million signatures are submitted, the requested acts must also be submitted. otherwise, the eu is playing people for fools. in the present case, the commission refuses to recognise the case law of the court of justice (c-34/10: a human being is a human being from the moment of conception and a human embryo is a human being). it does not deal with the obvious contradictions of its own policy. the commission is in breach of the procedures by not forwarding its opinion to the european parliament. the eu commission is thus the living testimony to the fact that the institutions in brussels do not care much about the opinion and the will of the citizens to shape their own future. the juncker commission wanted to be more political than its predecessor. mr timmermans: respect the will of the people and implement the demands of 'one of us'! the social democrats are succeeding where the christian democrats have failed in one of their core issues?
the next item is the debate on the report by mr charles goerens, on behalf of the committee on development, on the ebola crisis: long-term lessons and actions to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises (2014/2204 (ini)) (a8-0281/2015).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the media silence around ebola is deceptive. there are still cases in guinea and sierra leone, and there are still unknown health consequences for ebola survivors. it is logical and good that charles goerens' report goes beyond the immediate catastrophe. that is an essential element of this report. thank you, charles. we therefore call for the strengthening of the health systems in the affected countries of liberia, guinea and sierra leone. but we also need to look at similarly fragile states in africa. as in the refugee crisis, where the eu and the international community have in the past been far too late and halfhearted in tackling the causes of displacement, so too in the health system, in the provision of basic and general health care, in the improvement of hygiene conditions in these countries. when will we learn that prevention is the better approach to development cooperation? the nobel peace prize this year is rightly awarded to the dialogue quartet in tunisia. that's good! the men and women who fought the ebola crisis as doctors, nurses, nurses, in the face of death - many paid with their lives - should also have won the nobel peace prize. commissioner, thank you for your commitment as coordinator of the response to the ebola crisis.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. what are the long-term lessons from the ebola crisis? how do we strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises? mr goerens, i am responsible for a very similar report for the acp delegation and have often spoken with african colleagues. they're saying that if there was another pandemic today or tomorrow, we would be as devastatingly prepared as we were before the ebola crisis. let's stop whining! let us act together with the countries concerned! i am calling for the establishment of globally networked emergency centres. we must be able to provide the region with a minimum of infrastructure within 24 hours, wherever it happens. but we also need to stop the medical brain drain from developing countries. we need good doctors there and we should encourage their training. we need to have universal coverage in rural areas, and we need to involve the mothers. if they know and say what is important for hygiene, this is a thousand times more effective than the advice of a european development worker.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we in the green group also thank mr goeren for this report and we naturally welcome it very much, because now we really have to learn lessons, lessons for the future, for future crises, because this will not be the last. what we would have liked to see in this report is the call for a flexible approach to intellectual property, because the ebola crisis has once again made it clear that health is a public good. we therefore call on the eu to develop a flexible perspective for developing countries on the rights of health and access to medicines, and also to promote the right of developing countries to make full use of the scope of the trips agreements. we welcome the report's call for all states to address social injustice - including through universal health coverage - and to develop a plan with their own financial resources and potential international resources to implement it. we should not let the crisis become a forgotten crisis, because it will take many years for countries to recover from it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. discharge is a task which parliament has laid down in the treaty. this is actually a prime time today, because that's exactly the job that people expect us to do, which is to look at how the money has been spent. the commissioner therefore welcomes the success stories of the joint ventures, but it would be important for us to have more ownership by the commission. we need supervision. i'm always amazed at the number of problems in these miniature households. they are relatively small households. so i think that in these small households, it should actually be much more transparent than what we have experienced in our work. i want to come to the council. it is a scandal that the council takes its own duty to examine all the european union's expenditure so lightly. the council refuses to even consider the other institutions in its recommendation, which is in the treaty. he is to make recommendations on expenditure management. the treaty states that he is to make recommendations to the commission. but we've just now mapped the entire range of money spending. it would be nice if the council could finally get its act together and really pull this thorn out of our flesh. it's absolutely ridiculous the trouble he's causing.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. for me, there is no way around a future-proof and comprehensive legal safeguard for net neutrality. unfortunately, the text of the regulation does not provide for this. there is no word net neutrality, nor is there a legal definition. there is only the obligation in principle to treat data traffic equally. the possible exceptions are so wide-ranging that net neutrality is dangerously diluted. service classes are already allowed in the open network. traffic management, including blocking and prioritization, is possible even in the event of a threat of network congestion, and special services are not sufficiently limited. i believe that the price we are paying for the abolition of roaming is too high: the total breach of net neutrality. the open and non-discriminatory nature of the internet has proven to be a driving force for innovation in social and economic development. the european parliament's stated objective was to safeguard net neutrality in a secure and legal manner as a key guarantee of equal opportunities for communication and freedom of information and to safeguard diversity. if i were to accept that view, i would have to reject this regulation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have already signed up to the rules of procedure. either the blue card system works, or it doesn't work in this house. if the blue card is presented and a member is asked whether she accepts and you give the floor to another member, that is not correct. now people are being forced in who haven't even spoken. i would ask you to read the rules again, to see how the blue card system works.
mr president, net neutrality means that traffic is treated equally without discrimination, restriction or interference, independent of the sender—receiver type, content, device, service or application. the council is trying to make us believe that this is what we are getting with this regulation, but i wonder why the council refused to include this definition, or even the word net neutrality, in the agreement. i wonder why the founder of the world wide web, tim berners-lee, is urging us not to undermine net neutrality and to adopt amendments. tim berners-lee is joined in his call for amendments by leading eu start-ups and investors, by the german stanford professor, barbara van schewick, who is the world’s leading expert on net neutrality issues, and by us presidential candidate lawrence lessig. the fact is that this regulation allows business practices that rely on keeping the internet slow and expensive, such as zero-rating; it allows the slow-down of encrypted traffic; it gives incentives to companies not to protect our privacy and not to invest in broadband roll—out. that is exactly the opposite of a net neutrality regulation. so please adopt amendments to make sure that parliament delivers on its promise to keep the internet open. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– my statement criticising the net neutrality regulation in this package was precisely on the net neutrality part – i believe your question relates to the roaming part of the package. i do not believe that the regulation as such really sets an end date for roaming. i think it is our job as legislators to do that: to put an end to roaming and to clearly define net neutrality in the regulation. i think what we are doing here as a parliament is that we are giving responsibility to the council, to berec and to the commission to actually do the job that we, as legislators, should be doing, and that is to pass clear rules on roaming and on net neutrality.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, we must be careful that the term "net neutrality" does not become an ideological battle cry in this house. the best thing the eu and formerly the european economic community has to offer us is clearly the european single market. it is the basis for prosperity, for jobs and, ultimately, for the moral positions which the european parliament is trying to spread throughout the world. all of this is threatened by two things: first, in the digital economy, we are lagging further behind the rest of the world. and secondly, it is essential that we make sure that the european internal market is also connected to the outside world. ladies and gentlemen, both must happen at the same time, and that is why i support the commission's proposal. i am also of the opinion - and here comes my ceterum censeo - that the single currency in europe is a source of discord and therefore must be abolished.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the telecoms package is a very complex piece of legislation with an unlikely relevance to all citizens here in europe, and in many ways. firstly, we are talking about the abolition of roaming, which, as i have learned here, is not welcomed by all parties, but by most of us in this house. secondly, we also talk about the issue of net neutrality. it is a term which the council apparently abhors as the devil abhors holy water. the first objective was to remove this term from the directive. i am deeply sorry that there is no representative of the council sitting here today to explain to us why net neutrality has been so strongly opposed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. the question to ask, however, precisely because we have a complex package, is: how do the individual aspects and the individual points that could be achieved in the package work together? here, it must be said, we are achieving more than we have so far. the commission has not yet defined net neutrality, but it has not yet guaranteed equal treatment, non-discrimination and free access to all networks, irrespective of the broadcaster or the receiver. this means that at the moment telecommunications companies have a relatively free hand, as we have had in the past, and the only way to intervene is through competition law. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step. i am not satisfied with the outcome on net neutrality, but i am satisfied that the overall package is a real step in the right direction.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. with this telecommunications package we are taking a very important first step towards promoting the rights of citizens, the rights of consumers, and that is very important. and our hard fight, which we have fought over and over again to finally abolish roaming charges, is showing results only very slowly, but the results are coming, and that is why this is a very important question. the other important issue is, of course, the issue of net neutrality, which we have also been working on. and of course i would have preferred much more if parliament's text had prevailed in the negotiations we had. the question is, how do we deal with it now? i think that with this text we have taken a first step in the right direction, an important step, because in 26 countries there are no rules at all. we'll have to see that again. but that means, commissioner, and i ask you to listen to me, that we cannot sit back and do nothing, but we must work very hard to ensure that things like zero-rating are clearly defined as 'rejected'. and we also need to continue to work on net neutrality, so that we can really make it clear that all citizens have free access to it.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the european council and the commission on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 15 october 2015, in particular on the provision of international financial resources, and of the meeting of heads of state or government of 25 october 2015 on the flows of refugees along the western balkans route, and preparation of the valetta summit of 11 and 12 november 2015 (2015/2841 ((rsp)). i am not saying that we should not be concerned. on sunday, at the invitation of president juncker, i attended the meeting of heads of government in brussels on the flows of refugees along the western balkans route. as i explained to the conference of presidents on thursday, in view of the drama, i thought it appropriate and justified that mr juncker, president of the commission, should have called all the parties involved together in brussels to take urgent operational decisions and to decide on practical steps. president tusk and i have accepted the invitation and have attended this meeting. but without prejudice to these meetings, we too must try, and especially within the framework of the community institutions, to find lasting answers to the refugee crisis. it is therefore right and important that the results of the various meetings be the subject of a wide-ranging debate today. ladies and gentlemen, on sunday it became quite clear - if i may say so - that the situation in the western balkans is extremely worrying, also politically. tens of thousands are fleeing across this balkan route to western europe. they have no roof over their heads, they freeze, they starve, they endure in the rain for days on end, or they cross our external and internal borders in the middle of the night. the impending onset of winter is a humanitarian catastrophe, as jean-claude juncker has called it. i therefore believe that the 17-point plan which was adopted in the early hours of the other day is a good step which must be implemented quickly and which many others must follow. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the atmosphere at this meeting was partly ghostly. the biggest problem after this meeting is that promises are made and then not kept. when governments, whether right-wing or left-wing, put national egos ahead of collective solutions, there are two sufferers: refugees and cohesion in the european union. (applause from the centre)
president of the european council.– mr president, before debriefing on the european council of 15 october and the next steps ahead, i would like to say the following. the crisis, or rather challenge, that we, all of us, as a community, as the european union, are facing now is perhaps the biggest challenge we have seen for decades. i have no doubt that this challenge has the potential to change the european union we have built. it has the potential even to destroy achievements such as border-free travel between schengen countries. what is even more dangerous, it has the potential to create tectonic changes in the european political landscape. and these are not changes for the better. these are truly extraordinary times that require extraordinary measures, extraordinary sacrifices and extraordinary solidarity. to me, as president of the european council, and i believe to most of us, it is paramount to ensure the unity of our member states and our european institutions. together, we will handle this crisis. otherwise, i do not want to think of the alternative. from the very outset of this crisis, i have underlined the importance of protecting our external borders. we do not yet have an agreement on how to do it in operational terms but at least leaders share the view that our priority must be to protect the eu’s external borders. unfortunately, the situation will get even worse, as i warned this chamber in my last intervention. i mean, for example, the new wave of refugees from aleppo and the region of the russian bombing attacks in syria: more than 100 000 new refugees in a few days. during the last european council, leaders gave a cautious welcome to the work of the commission on a deal with turkey on migration. here, let me personally thank first vice-president timmermans who is working hard on the technical details. let me stress again that a deal with turkey only makes sense if it helps stem the migratory flows to europe. this cooperation will not be easy. we should have no illusion that any third country, including turkey, can replace us in protecting our borders. second, leaders took stock of work to make eleven hotspots in greece and italy fully operational by the end of november. this deadline is ambitious and requires a significant acceleration of manpower and assets to frontex, and the european asylum support office. for now, the european agencies have less than half of what they need. when it comes to the role of hotspots, we have started an honest debate on how they should function. this is still work in progress. third, we discussed at length how to protect our borders. we must end at once this completely unnecessary argument between the proponents of protecting external borders and the advocates of solidarity and openness. we need both. we need to restore effective external border control to start managing the situation on our borders. this has to include stopping the illegal crossings of our borders, registration of all asylum-seekers, and organisation of appropriate reception facilities. this will not in itself stop the flow, but it will reduce it significantly. in this regard, the european council agreed that frontex will be developed beyond its current mandate. it will be able to intervene in border crises faster and more assertively and it will take a lead in the return of irregular migrants. we need parliament’s help to do this as quickly as possible. the aim is to equip frontex with the tools it needs to fully protect european borders. i would like to commend the impressive work already done by the members on financing for both frontex and the european asylum support office. in parallel, we will need to work on how to develop further our internal solidarity between member states. a very first step is to provide frontex and the european asylum support office with all the resources they need, as well as implementing the temporary relocation mechanism to alleviate the burden from those of our member states most affected. this crisis does not just concern syrian refugees. two weeks from now i will convene a summit of european and african leaders in valletta. with the help of our african counterparts, it is our goal that this summit will help to forge a real euro-african partnership on the migration issue. the european council decided that we want to achieve concrete operational measures, in a fair and balanced manner, on effective return and readmission, dismantling of criminal networks and prevention of illegal migration, accompanied by real efforts to tackle the root causes and to support african socio—economic development, together with a commitment concerning continued possibilities for legal migration. we will aim at exploring possibilities for developing safe and sustainable reception capacities in the affected regions and providing lasting prospects and appropriate procedures for refugees and their families, including through access to education and jobs, until return to their country of origin is possible. finally, we will ask member states to further contribute to the efforts made to support unhcr, the world food programme and other agencies, as well as to support the eu’s regional trust fund responding to the syrian crisis and the eu trust fund for africa. finally, on britain: i briefed leaders on the preparatory discussions between my officials and the uk over the last months. we welcomed prime minister cameron’s commitment to set out the uk’s specific concerns in writing by early november.
president of the commission. the european council has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. last week along the western balkans route we saw refugees wading through freezing rivers. we saw them sleeping in the rain and mud. soon this will be snow and ice. winter is approaching and every day counts. that is precisely why, mr president, and in agreement with president tusk, i invited some european member states and three states which are not yet members of the european union to brussels last sunday for a special meeting on the western balkans route. eight heads of state or government of the european union participated in this meeting, plus the luxembourg minister for migration, mr asselborn, and the dutch minister for migration, representing the future council presidency. i also invited council president tusk and president schulz to the meeting because i wanted to make it clear that this refugee crisis does not only concern the western balkan countries concerned, but also the european institutions, including the european parliament, whose help we urgently need in terms of the budgetary impact of the agreements reached by the european council and this western balkan group. i would like to express once again my gratitude to the european parliament for having followed all the proposals of the european commission in record time and for having empowered and enabled the european union to implement budgetary decisions effectively. i also invited my friend, the high commissioner for refugees, antónio guterres, frontex and easo to this meeting, as well as albania, fyrom and serbia, because these three countries, which are on the periphery of the european union, are particularly affected by the movements of refugees. the commission has taken this initiative with these western balkan countries and with some of the countries of destination of the refugee movement, because the commission is in the business of operating with both feet and must ensure on a daily basis that the expectations and wishes of the member states and, moreover, of the refugees, can be met as quickly as possible. actually, this meeting shouldn't have been necessary. the normal situation would be for the western balkan countries to talk to each other instead of talking about each other. for the first time, it was possible to bring together those who talk about each other and do not talk to each other, around a table, and ask them - and i did - to speak openly and honestly about the problems that exist in general, regionally and bilaterally. this wish was granted in an almost exaggerated form. this, in turn, gave the impression to the outside world, because there are constantly reports from these meetings, as if we were dealing with a disintegration and a final division of the european union into two or more parts. the normal case is that we talk to each other. it is not even an exceptional case, it is a 'non-case' that member states of the european union do not talk among themselves about common problems, and that it took a special meeting, shows that the european union is not in a good state, because what we started on sunday should have been started spontaneously by the member states concerned. the debate was open, honest sometimes exhausting and not every conversation and not every word corresponds to the qualification of a dialogue contribution. but we have succeeded in making it clear in this round, in this format - special circumstances require special formats - that we can only deal with this problem together. i am therefore grateful to all those who took part in the debate for coming together at a time when it was really important to make it clear that europe cannot be built against each other, but only together. sunday was not a day for big political statements. it was a day to roll up our sleeves and agree on pragmatic operational measures that can be implemented immediately. leaders committed to addressing three main challenges. point number one: they committed to providing immediate shelter for all arriving refugees so that they are not left outside in sub-zero temperatures. they committed to providing food, healthcare, water, sanitation, including by relying on the eu civil protection mechanism where necessary. as a very concrete follow-up, yesterday croatia activated the civil protection mechanism, asking for winter tents, beds, emergency blankets and electric heaters. i would expect member states to contribute to this european solidarity mechanism to provide croatia with the necessary assistance for those in need. leaders committed to increasing reception capacities for refugees by 100 000 places overall in greece and the western balkans. i would like to commend prime minister alexis tsipras for agreeing to create 30 000 places by the end of the year and, with the help of the unhcr, places for another 20 000 people. i am grateful to antónio guterres, who will ensure the unhcr lends its full support to these efforts to increase reception capacities by a further 50 000 along the western balkans route. second, leaders committed to managing migration flows together. we need to slow down the uncontrolled flow of people. this means registering people when they enter the european union. so this means informing refugees about the existing routes and the consequences of their refusal to be registered. i have to say: no registration, no rights. it's as simple as that and refugees have to know this because of course refugees have rights, and i will always defend this right, but refugees coming to europe have obligations too. (applause) i would like to thank managing the migration flows together therefore means sharing information. last week we saw countries waving through refugees from one country to the other. we saw fingers being pointed at each other and we saw countries talking about, but not with, each other. that is the politics of panic. it gives the illusion of a solution, while all it does is harm your neighbours and damage european solidarity. we are putting an end to all beggar-thy-neighbour policies. instead, countries shall help their neighbours by telling each other what they are doing, exchanging information on migration flows and humanitarian capacities available. how many refugees are on their way? where are they crossing the border? where are they going? how many tents or blankets are currently being used and how can they be put at the disposal of the neighbour who needs them most? it is quite astonishing that we had to undertake a huge effort to convince some of our member states to inform other of our member states about the refugee flows heading to the borders. for someone who is inspired by basic common sense, it seems surprising that we have to convene a meeting to ask member states to inform each other about refugee movements. that again shows that the european union is not in good shape. we need to share the answer to simple questions like those i mentioned. yesterday, all countries who attended sunday's meeting appointed national contact points so we can instantly share information. the commission will monitor the implementation on a weekly basis and will hold the first conference call already this week on thursday. third, leaders agreed to strengthen border management. to protect schengen we agreed to strengthen the external eu border, in particular between greece, serbia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) and albania. by the end of this week, 400 additional police officers will be deployed in slovenia this week. frontex will assist greece in registration of refugees and migrants. countries will step up efforts to return migrants who do not need protection. to this end, the commission stands ready to work on readmission agreements with relevant countries where we do not yet have any in place, while continuing our work to improve the workings of admission agreements in place, such as the one with pakistan, for example. another element which impressed me a lot, all in all having knowledge before entering the room, was the discussion on the following point: practically all the member states, without exception, have drawn collective attention to the enormous cost of the policy that the member states must put in place to deal with the refugee crisis. i understand perfectly. that is why, on 15 october, the commission, which i have the honour to chair, informed the member states that when it comes to qualifying budgetary expenditure affecting the refugee crisis, we will apply the revised rules for the application of the stability and growth pact, as the commission, by adding a certain amount of flexibility to the interpretation of these rules, provides. we are facing a problem of exceptional gravity. so i can say everywhere, and i can sing on all the roofs of europe, the pact is the pact. the pact is not a pact in the old sense of the term, so it is a matter of putting all our efforts at the service of a commonly accepted policy. and so, in the light of a country-by-country analysis, we shall see to what extent the cost of refugee policy must be taken into account. we shall therefore apply the pact as it has been amended by the commission, but we shall do so on the basis of a country-by-country analysis. there are some countries, including some of the great ones, that do not make a sufficient effort. if a country makes an extraordinary effort, there must be an interpretation in accordance with that extraordinary effort. the countries which do not make additional efforts, which do not succeed in proving that they are seriously affected by the cost of the policy i am talking about, will not be able to apply a more flexible interpretation of the pact. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the treaty is interpreted more flexibly. and then, my colleagues, we must remember that the budget of the european union is limited. the resources are limited, the possibilities for flexibility are limited, and we are reaching the extreme limits of our budgetary possibilities. the commission has done everything in its power to ensure that all the budgetary resources available are brought together in the same spirit and effort. but the european budget is too small to be able to face the problems we are facing alone, and i would therefore invite the member states, your parliament and the european investment bank to consider ways and means of supplementary financing which we need to be able to face the crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. sunday was a day of unity. for the first time, the leaders of the western balkans sat around the table and discussed the problems they are facing. they agreed on a series of concrete and operational actions to better manage the situation. these measures are in addition to those we discussed at the european council on 15 october. president tusk has mentioned all the decisions which were taken that day. on 15 october, and in line with what i have said in this house, i had one objective, namely to lead member states back to the promises they made on 23 september at the previous european council. there has not been enough progress and, in some cases, not enough by far. we need progress in two areas in particular. first, we need to speed up as i mentioned operational measures to get the hotspots and relocation working. relocation is not working in the best way possible. second, we need budgetary support. i made it clear before this house, and again before the european council, that member states need to do more and act faster to keep the promises made on 23 september. this is essential. this is crucially essential if we want the operational decisions to be implemented. at the council, member states told me they would stand by their promises, and we have seen updated pledges from some. but the member states are still moving slowly at a time when they should be running. they are moving slowly. they should start running. in september, member states promised to send experts and reinforce our agencies. we urgently need the experts for the agencies to help register refugees, take fingerprints and help refugees in hotspot areas. the european asylum support office (easo) asked for 374 experts. as of yesterday, 20 member states had offered 145 experts, but we still need 229 more. there is progress on border guards for frontex. frontex asked for 775 experts and so far has received offers of 326. this is good, but it is far from being good enough. we need more. on relocation too, things are moving, but they're not moving fast enough. member states need to do as they promised: nominate national contact points, send liaison officers to italy and greece and notify their reception capacity. 25 member states out of 26 obliged to do so have now appointed national contact points, eight member states have appointed liaison officers for italy, and only three member states for greece. nine member states have let us know that they can soon relocate at least 700 people. but let us not forget that we have made a decision to relocate 160,000 refugees in need of international protection. the gap between pledges and what is on the table must be reduced, otherwise we will lose all credibility. (applause) i would like to thank three weeks ago we decided to make available to the policies in progress and those to come all the budgetary means at the disposal of the european union. the community budget has been fully used. we will devote in the european budget us, commission, but it is the money of the member states and the money of the citizens 10 billion euros to the resolution of the refugee crisis in 2015 and 2016. we have increased the amount we are going to devote to this policy, which is essential in my view, from 4.2 billion to 10 billion. on 23 september, the member states promised to fill the gaps that existed, but we still lack, in terms of national bilateral contributions, 2.3 billion euros because the member states, until today, we have been told that they would be able to put at our disposal 486 million. there is therefore a huge gap, practically the same as that which existed a month ago, of 2.3 billion euros. we must therefore do better, because we risk not being up to par. we will be in november donald tusk is a fair reference a summit with african countries. we want it because we believe that the refugee problem is not just a european problem. we must not believe that on one side there is the world and on the other europe. i consider that there is a europe in the world, and we must therefore act in concert with our african friends. i would not like to arrive at la valette with such a promises. how can we engage in a serious and responsible dialogue with our african cousins if we ourselves are not able to respond adequately to the promises we have made to them? it is therefore a question, here in valletta, of making sure that we are at the rendezvous of the pockets filled not only with promises, but also with commitments. (applause from the centre) i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to say a word about turkey, because i am about to run out of time, but you know that. we are in the process of agreeing a joint action programme with turkey. the proposals put forward by the commission in this connection have not only been studied in depth by the european council, chaired by donald tusk, but have also been positively received. the first vice-president, frans timmermans, has set things in motion in direct negotiations with turkey, even at night. i would like to thank him very much for his efforts, which have now been successful. it is doing very well, as is the commissioner responsible for refugee matters, mr dimitris avramopoulos, who is very committed and is also working in the countries concerned to solve these refugee problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's all i do. if others were as active in combating the refugee crisis as the commission is in its day-to-day and night-to-day work, we would be much further along. the commission - i say this - deserves no criticism in this respect! (applause from the centre) we must work with turkey to implement this joint action plan. we are doing this, frans timmermans is doing this, johannes hahn is doing this, dimitris avramopoulos is doing this. but we have to move fast now. i read and i share many of these written discussions that there are doubts, there are concerns, that there are many questions to be asked in relation to the dealings with turkey. i 'll tell you this much . turkey hosts 2.5 million refugees on its territory - more than we do and for longer than we have. now there are two possibilities: either we say to turkey: okay, there are unresolved issues between the european union, between the member states of the european union, between the european parliament, between the european commission and turkey in terms of human rights, in terms of freedom of the press, and so on and so forth. but it's not working right now. in our discussions with our turkish colleagues - mr timmermans, myself and others - we have drawn the attention of the turkish government to these abuses. but we must now take concrete steps in common solidarity with turkey, because turkey has agreed to ensure that the refugees currently hosted in turkey remain in turkey. they agree to do everything possible to prevent new flows of refugees from moving towards turkey and then towards southern and northern europe. turkey agrees to allow refugees to benefit from social services, and it agrees that children from all over the world can go to school in turkey. what is the point of bringing refugees together in camps and not ensuring that the children of these refugees have a chance at life by being able to go to school and get an education? i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the negotiations with turkey, but that it should be involved in the negotiations with turkey. turkey needs three billion euros to overcome the crisis. the european budget provides €250 million for 2015 and €250 million for 2016, with the remainder to be provided by the member states. and these amounts are in addition to the 2.3 billion euros which we have been lacking since the september council. we must talk to turkey about visa liberalization, we must talk to turkey about the accession negotiations and the dynamisation of them, without renouncing our original and still valid decisions in principle. i appeal to this house to help the commission to reach agreements with turkey that will help them and us, quickly and firmly. otherwise the situation will be much more difficult than it is today. i would add that i would like us to deal quickly with the subject of the joint coast guard. we need a common coast guard and we need better protection of the external borders. we need direct information to be passed on to the refugees, and we need the message to the refugees - not to the asylum seekers, but to the refugees - that they must return to their home countries when the fighting in syria - i'm dreaming a little - and elsewhere has ended. i thank you for your attention and i shall be glad to discuss with you all the questions concerning european economic and monetary union in the course of the debate. i would just like to say that we are trying to move quickly towards deepening european economic and monetary union on the basis of the five presidents' report. i would ask all those who are rightly - i think wrongly - concerned about the fact that the european parliament's influence is being taken into account to forget their concerns. the european commission will, above all, speak, negotiate and debate with parliament in the manner appropriate to the excellent relations between the two institutions, particularly in the field of deposit insurance.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, as i prepared for my speech yesterday, i wrote down in my diary: yes, we are for hotspots, yes, we are for more development aid, yes for quotas, yes for safe countries of origin. and somehow, in preparing this speech, i realized that i've given this speech a few times before in this house. i would therefore like to begin today not with the factual assessment but with the political situation. that we have a european commission which, as it made clear on sunday, wants to lead europe, wants to bring europe together so that europe can finally get on its feet, so that we can move forward. a commission which is really political, as we have always wanted. this too became clear on sunday. jean-claude juncker has made it politically clear that the waving must stop. the political statements were correctly formulated, the commission's legislative texts, by our responsible commissioner avramopoulos, are on the table. we in the european parliament have given our backing in many decisions, in the budget, and i assure my group that we will also make a fast track procedure for the two legislative texts now before us on safe third countries and on the permanent quota, in order to make it clear: we are ready to give the important political answers to make europe capable of action. and then, mr president-in-office, we are with the member states - once again with the member states. the promises that have been made are not being kept. i would like to say this today: i would like to see the european council, when it is discussing the future, not just philosophizing about the future in general terms, but asking, as specifically as possible, what has actually been done by the member states in terms of the commitments they have made. i think that, as president of the council, you have a strong responsibility and a strong role to play. i would like to see the member states specifically asked in future what commitments they have made so far. we need the pressure we are exerting there at the european council to move forward, especially in view of the coming winter. i am not going to go into detail. we are witnessing the failure of the exaggerated nation state, of national egoism, which is failing here. it is the europe of farage and le pen that meets there and that at the end of the day does not produce any decisions there. it is the europe of the right which, unfortunately, has not found solutions in this area, and we, as the european people's party, have a clear distinction to make. we say: if jordan and lebanon help, if poor countries help, then europe must help. we say that we are proud of europe - i have said this before - for human rights, not just for christian rights. we as the epp share donald tusk's view that we want clear, strong controls at the eu's external border. it is not every person who knocks on the door in europe who can enter europe. that's part of the truth, too. if we implement this package together, we're on the right track. i should like to make a political assessment of the situation. i am very pleased that the commission has taken this step, because i am often criticised in the debates, even as an epp member, for the way viktor orbán has dealt with this. we agree, ladies and gentlemen, that we must remind viktor orbán of the humanitarian nature of his treatment. that is what my group says, and that is what is shared. but i would also like to point out in this house: when the european council of ministers of the interior decided on the 160 000 quota, one epp government leader, viktor orbán, was against it, and three social democrats were against it, namely romania, slovakia and the czech republic. i have not heard the statements i hear from angela merkel, namely that she encourages people and says: we must also live up to our responsibility in the refugee question. and that is why i am asking you, mr president, to stop pushing the black peter back and forth between the democratic parties. everyone has a role to play, and we all, as europeans, should ensure that responsibility is taken at home. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. in conclusion, i would just like to say that we are facing a rise in populism and extremism. there are forces that frighten people. we have taken a fundamental decision in the european parliament, namely that the democrats, the pro-europeans, should work together and we want to prevent extremists from having influence on legislation. that's what we've been trying to do for the last year. i would ask the other party colleagues in this house to do the same at national level. i am concerned about the development in portugal and i would like to say quite explicitly that i have great respect for the president of the republic, who is trying to take decisions right now, that extremists, in this case from the left, are not given legislative responsibility. we should maintain this consensus, that we will manage to hold pro-european democratic forces in europe accountable, to face the challenges together in these difficult times. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for the steeple. maybe the hungarian translation didn't work. but i can say it again: when we decided to distribute the 160,000 refugees in europe fairly, one epp government, that of viktor orbán, was against it, and three social democratic governments were against this decision. i would like to repeat that. viktor orbán has made it clear that although he does not like the decision, he will implement it in hungary. on the other hand, your party colleague fico in slovakia said that he was not ready to implement european law. what i am advocating, ladies and gentlemen, is that we stop pushing ourselves in both directions, in partisan politics, towards black peter, and make it clear that we have quite different issues on the table here. that is, we must be prepared, in portugal and elsewhere, to out-margin the extremists. this must be our common task. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr weber, you are right. if you really want to contribute to a constructive solution in emergency situations, call mr seehofer and tell him that he can simply - instead of always trumpeting in public - pick up the phone and talk to mr faymann and mrs merkel. i think that's possible in his position and would benefit us all. (applause from the centre) i would like to begin this debate by trying to put one thing in order. i do not think that we should really be discussing a deep crisis of the european union in the first place. crisis and war, that is something that is happening outside the european union at the moment. many other nations have far more problems than the european union has had so far. if we don't stop talking about ourselves and our problems first, we won't be able to help bring about change in syria and the region, or sub-saharan africa or the mediterranean in general. i am now almost shocked by the self-orientation of these discussions. i also believe that the enormous pressure we are feeling and talking about is actually the result of a very self-centred, wrong refugee and migration policy that we have been pursuing for decades. the european union had been too comfortable for too long with the dublin regulation, which was designed to isolate and limit the problem to the border countries. we have been able to achieve this by means of the european parliament's own initiative, which has been a great success. it is not easy to get out of such a mode of disconnection and indifference now. but i believe that the european union is strong enough to do that if we stop talking about breaking the european union in this challenge. i think it is right, mr juncker, that the decisions have been taken to do more to improve the situation of refugees in turkey and also in other countries neighbouring syria. but what i think is wrong, and this is an old mistake, is that in order to do something right, you re-align yourself with a man who is doing exactly the wrong thing in his country. i'm talking about president erdoğan. he is a man of great integrity. as we are debating this, a large media group in turkey is being occupied by the police, it is to be occupied and put under the management of acp people. so think very carefully about how this can go with turkey. i think it is absolutely right that the balkans summit took place last weekend. i think it is a breakthrough that it is finally admitted that, as before in hungary, we are experiencing a situation of humanitarian catastrophe along the balkan route and that the european union is now responsible for taking better care of the people who have fled to us in this situation and who are fleeing to us because their countries are broken and the european union is a space in which we are working for the benefit of the citizens. i can only emphasise that i also believe that we need to think beyond the acute management of the situation to think about long-term changes. what will replace dublin? what is the future of europe's refugee and immigration policy? how do we set our boundaries? we must not forget that the european union has a long history of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe, and that the european union has a long history of cooperation with the countries of central and eastern europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. this is a huge problem, the refugee issue and how we deal with it. that is beyond dispute. what bothers me personally is that from morning to night i hear people describing how difficult the situation is, how complicated it is. others are concerned with who is to blame and who is responsible. third, they tell us something about what we have done wrong in the past. the council then meets, adopts a few very concrete measures on the basis of the commission's proposals, and then nothing happens. it's what makes people tick. we have a job as politicians to solve the problems - not to discuss or to scold each other, but we have a job to solve them. and i'm sure that people will treat the refugee issue very differently when they realize that what the politicians have set out to do is actually working. and then you just have to do what's normal: what you decided, what you agreed, implement. i admit that this is a problem which is not confined to european politics at this point. we do that a lot. we would not have many problems if we all followed the decisions we made in the committees. and we don't have to worry about it every time. and that is why i am extremely grateful that the commission has arranged for this meeting to take place on sunday, because that is what we are going to be discussing. she said very specifically that we should sit down with those affected, exchange views and decide who does what. of course not everyone was there, of course it was not a meeting that met any criteria, of course not all the decisions of wisdom were final or produced what could be achieved, but finally some very concrete things were determined that help the people who help the problem solving. and i have only one simple expectation, namely that all those involved, whether it is the commission, parliament or the council - and the council has the most important job to do at the moment - simply do what they have promised. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if the member states cannot do it alone, then we have a tool, let us use it! so in that sense, thank you very much. it was a first step, and because it was a first step, it was followed by a second step, and that's why it was right.
mr president, actually and unusually i am not all that disappointed at what came out on sunday, unlike mr schulz or some other voices here, because finally the heads of state present have at least realised that we have a humanitarian crisis at hand. it should be obvious that refugees need shelter, food, water – the things you have mentioned, mr juncker. but for once, finally, we have it in the conclusions, so let us hope that all of those things are finally going to be delivered. i am also happy that the geneva convention and complying with eu law was highlighted; i am just not sure how you are going to bring that together with sending people back to afghanistan, because afghani refugees are recognised as refugees inside the european union; they almost fulfil the threshold of 75% to be eligible for relocation. afghanistan certainly is not a safe place and, again, unfortunately the mini-summit on sunday failed to address the crucial questions of a new and fair distribution system – fair for member states and for refugees, and the question of legal access. those are the issues we actually need to address, not some weird fortress europe issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i don't want to go into the leaders meeting again. it's bad enough that we have to write it off as a success. that's where we are. but i would like to expressly support you on behalf of the commission and commissioner timmermans in firmly pursuing the negotiations with turkey. first, they deserve it because they have been with the syrian refugees for a long time, and second, it gives us the air we need to create and consolidate structures to better deal with the people who are refugees and those who welcome refugees. we must not, of course, throw our convictions and values overboard, nor does anyone think that this will happen in these negotiations. but we also have to be clear that morality alone is not going to solve the problem. secondly, i would ask you to continue to do everything possible to work with the united states, russia, iran and saudi arabia to bring an end to the war in syria. we can only do this together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is a voluntary community, but its members are committed to shared sovereignty and shared responsibility. but old and new member states tend to forget this and fall into national egoism. but improved border controls must allow refugees to enter the european union legally. those who want to return must first secure their individual asylum claims. the capacity for registering refugees that is now being planned can only work if we distribute them to all european countries in a short time, organise integration and at the same time improve the situation of refugees in other countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. national egotism is not the answer. the member states must now act as a community of solidarity, as the european union.
ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the few remaining members who are continuing their private discussions here in the house could also take their seats. that would be very polite. i can't imagine, with all my will, that anyone has noticed the last ten speakers here. parliamentary debate is when colleagues can speak and other colleagues can listen. that was certainly not the case with the last ten speakers in this house, which i think is unfair.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report 'the common agricultural policy: repealing obsolete legislation' because i believe it is important to save our farmers and family farms from unnecessary bureaucracy. a good approach that should be followed in other areas.
in writing. ‒ continuous review of existing legislation is crucial for effective action by the european union. only then can the legal situation be guaranteed to meet the requirements. today parliament has voted to repeal obsolete legislation. this will not only increase the transparency of the european legal situation, but also improve the protection of the final consumer.
in writing. ‒ together with my group, the epp, i voted in favour of the report on the 'common agricultural policy: repealing obsolete legislation'. in the context of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the commission proposes to repeal two acts which have become obsolete. these two acts are in force, although they no longer have any practical application. the cor supports the measure of repealing legislation which is no longer applicable, and i share this view. what is not needed should be disposed of, so i have agreed to this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report 'eu-switzerland agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts' because it is an important step in the fight against tax evasion, which ultimately benefits our public budgets and thus all honest taxpayers.
in writing. ‒ existing tax loopholes need to be closed. to do this, we need complete documentation of all tax payments. the exchange of information between the eu and switzerland, which was agreed today and will enter into force in 2018, is a milestone in this respect. the annual losses from missed tax receipts can thus be reduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for this report, which is both technical and important, 'taxation of interest income: repealing the interest rate taxation directive', because i support the approach.
in writing. ‒ taxation of interest income is important and must be maintained. however, it is important that this is done as efficiently as possible and at the same time that it is transparent to outsiders. the repeal of the 2003 directive, which was decided today, is intended to avoid putting a particular burden on the member states by the provisions of two different taxation directives.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on the 'automated exchange of dactyloscopic data with sweden' because i support the approach. to guarantee security in a borderless europe, there is also a need for efficient cross-border cooperation between security authorities and the effective exchange of data.
in writing. ‒ it is desirable and important to intensify eu cooperation in the protection of citizens. in an emergency, it can provide data needed for efficient crime investigation more quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, together with my group, the ecr. the ecr supports the accession of sweden, poland and belgium to the automated system for the exchange of dactyloscopic data. poland, belgium and sweden have completed the questionnaire on data protection and dactyloscopic (i.e. fingerprint) data exchange and have successfully piloted projects. on the basis of a comprehensive evaluation report, the council decided on 13 july 2015 that those member states have fully implemented the general data protection provisions. i support my group's position on this subject and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on the 'automated exchange of dactyloscopic data with belgium' because i support the approach. to guarantee security in a borderless europe, there is also a need for efficient cross-border cooperation between security authorities and the effective exchange of data.
in writing. ‒ it is desirable and important to intensify eu cooperation in the protection of citizens. in an emergency, it can provide data needed for efficient crime investigation more quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, together with my group, the ecr. the ecr supports the accession of sweden, poland and belgium to the automated system for the exchange of dactyloscopic data. poland, belgium and sweden have completed the questionnaire on data protection and dactyloscopic (i.e. fingerprint) data exchange and have successfully piloted projects. on the basis of a comprehensive evaluation report, the council decided on 13 july 2015 that those member states have fully implemented the general data protection provisions. i support my group's position on this subject and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on 'automated dactyloscopic data exchange with poland' because i support the approach. to guarantee security in a borderless europe, there is also a need for efficient cross-border cooperation between security authorities and the effective exchange of data.
in writing. ‒ it is desirable and important to intensify eu cooperation in the protection of citizens. in an emergency, it can provide data needed for efficient crime investigation more quickly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, together with my group, the ecr. the ecr supports the accession of sweden, poland and belgium to the automated system for the exchange of dactyloscopic data. poland, belgium and sweden have completed the questionnaire on data protection and dactyloscopic (i.e. fingerprint) data exchange and have successfully piloted projects. on the basis of a comprehensive evaluation report, the council decided on 13 july 2015 that those member states have fully implemented the general data protection provisions. i support my group's position on this subject and have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the package travel and linked travel services report today because i do not think that the rapporteur's approach and the council's position go far enough to protect consumers better from unfair practices in this area.
in writing. ‒ i have campaigned for the protection of citizens when booking travel via the internet. an increasing proportion of trips are now booked online. it is also important that the protection of citizens is guaranteed. for example, the unconscious booking of additional travel options must be prevented. this requires uniform standards and rules. at the same time, this must not lead to over-regulation of small and medium-sized tourism businesses.
in writing. ‒ tourism is becoming more and more central to europe's economy and package holidays are also becoming more and more popular. the fact that this type of travel is booked via the internet shows a high level of customer confidence in online services. new markets, which means, above all, new challenges. for example, the tendency has developed to not visibly indicate the additional costs incurred in so-called package holidays. the directive provides legal clarity in this respect. all additional costs associated with a package, as well as the option to opt out of those additional costs, must be clearly visible to the consumer. at the same time, the directive aims at the functioning of a single internal market and is an excellent example of the european union not only pursuing economic objectives but also acting in the interests of the european consumer.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the amendments tabled by the other groups to the report on the 'european internal market for electronic communications' today, as i share the council's position. europe needs more security, more infrastructure of its own, when it comes to the cross-border benefits of electronic communications. it's good for our citizens.
in writing. ‒ for us in the german-dutch border region in particular, the abolition of roaming charges is a great success. but even when you are on holiday in another eu country, you will soon be able to call germany at home. this is a great example of the benefits that europe can bring to every citizen.
in writing. ‒ the gradual reduction of roaming charges for mobile phones used outside europe is welcome. if, by mid-2017, small mark-ups are still allowed compared to domestic prices, they will be completely eliminated after that deadline, thus enabling cross-border mobile communications without additional costs. the legal enshrinement of net neutrality is a prerequisite for fair competition in the digital economy. in view of the decline in the european it industry, it is high time to create a digital single market based on common standards, which will allow european companies to grow at similar rates to their foreign competitors. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the internet. prioritization may be necessary for technical non-commercial reasons, but only in a proportionate, non-discriminatory and time-limited manner. the national supervisory authorities remain responsible for ensuring that fair competition is observed. despite existing criticisms, i voted in favour of the relevant compromise proposal to ensure the timely creation of a digital single market and europe's competitiveness in digitisation. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the present compromise proposal from the trilogue procedure provides for the phasing out of roaming charges within the eu and for uniform standards for an open internet throughout the eu. the gradual reduction of roaming charges for mobile phones used outside the european union is to be welcomed. if, by mid-2017, small mark-ups are still allowed compared to domestic prices, they will be completely eliminated after that deadline, thus enabling cross-border mobile communications without additional costs. the legal enshrinement of net neutrality is a prerequisite for fair competition in the digital economy. in view of the decline in the european it industry, it is high time to create a digital single market based on common standards, which will allow european companies to grow at similar rates to their foreign competitors. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the internet. prioritization may be necessary for technical non-commercial reasons, but only in a proportionate, non-discriminatory and time-limited manner. the national supervisory authorities remain responsible for ensuring that fair competition is observed. despite existing criticisms such as the non-explicit ban on zero-rating, i voted in favour of the relevant compromise proposal to ensure the timely creation of a digital single market and europe's competitiveness in digitalisation.
in writing. ‒ the present compromise proposal from the trilogue procedure provides for the phasing out of roaming charges within the eu and for uniform standards for an open internet throughout the eu. the gradual reduction of roaming charges for mobile phones used outside the european union is to be welcomed. if, by mid-2017, small mark-ups are still allowed compared to domestic prices, they will be completely eliminated after that deadline, thus enabling cross-border mobile communications without additional costs. the legal enshrinement of net neutrality is a prerequisite for fair competition in the digital economy. in view of the decline in the european it industry, it is high time to create a digital single market based on common standards, which will allow european companies to grow at similar rates to their foreign competitors. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the internet. prioritization may be necessary for technical non-commercial reasons, but only in a proportionate, non-discriminatory and time-limited manner. the national supervisory authorities remain responsible for ensuring that fair competition is observed. as the trilogue procedure removed original restrictions from the text, the agreed compromise is not to be seen as a threat to net neutrality. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. in the vote on the single european market for electronic communications in strasbourg on 27 october 2015, i voted in favour of all the amendments and therefore against the trilogue result. i see net neutrality as the basis of a just and democratic internet. i could not agree with the text for two reasons: first of all, i think that the linking of roaming charges with net neutrality, as is done in this draft law, is undemocratic. this dubious linking of two different issues led us to vote against a clearly defined and secured net neutrality in the name of abolishing roaming charges. the text presented makes it clear that all traffic must be treated equally. however, the search for a clear definition of net neutrality has been fruitless. a two-speed internet that no longer treats data equally distorts competition and discriminates against citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises. the text threatens freedom of information and communication and the protection of diversity on the internet.
in writing. ‒ the present compromise proposal from the trilogue procedure provides for the phasing out of roaming charges within the eu and for uniform standards for an open internet throughout the eu. the gradual reduction of roaming charges for mobile phones used outside the european union is to be welcomed. if, by mid-2017, small mark-ups are still allowed compared to domestic prices, they will be completely eliminated after that deadline, thus enabling cross-border mobile communications without additional costs. the legal enshrinement of net neutrality is a prerequisite for fair competition in the digital economy. in view of the decline in the european it industry, it is high time to create a digital single market based on common standards, which will allow european companies to grow at similar rates to their foreign competitors. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the internet. prioritization may be necessary for technical non-commercial reasons, but only in a proportionate, non-discriminatory and time-limited manner. the national supervisory authorities remain responsible for ensuring that fair competition is observed. despite existing criticisms such as the non-explicit ban on zero-rating, i voted in favour of the relevant compromise proposal to ensure the timely creation of a digital single market and europe's competitiveness in digitalisation.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against the absurd link between roaming and net neutrality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the net neutrality of the electricity market is not undermined. the danger is that we will open the door to a two-speed internet and we will undermine the very principle of the free internet. the amendments which would have provided a clear definition of net neutrality were unfortunately not successful. that is why i did not approve the draft yesterday. the european commission has tried to combine two laws into one package. in order to agree to the abolition of roaming charges, we would have had to sacrifice net neutrality. i think that's undemocratic. i don't want any speed bumps on the internet. all traffic must be treated equally in principle. we must not leave the neutrality and openness of the net to the forces of the market.
in writing. ‒ the present compromise proposal from the trilogue procedure provides for the phasing out of roaming charges within the eu and for uniform standards for an open internet throughout the eu. the gradual reduction of roaming charges for mobile phones used outside the european union is to be welcomed. if, by mid-2017, small mark-ups are still allowed compared to domestic prices, they will be completely eliminated after that deadline, thus enabling cross-border mobile communications without additional costs. the legal enshrinement of net neutrality is a prerequisite for fair competition in the digital economy. in view of the decline in the european it industry, it is high time to create a digital single market based on common standards, which will allow european companies to grow at similar rates to their foreign competitors. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the internet. prioritization may be necessary for technical non-commercial reasons, but only in a proportionate, non-discriminatory and time-limited manner. the national supervisory authorities remain responsible for ensuring that fair competition is observed. despite existing criticisms such as the non-explicit ban on zero-rating, i voted in favour of the relevant compromise proposal to ensure the timely creation of a digital single market and europe's competitiveness in digitalisation.
in writing. the telecom package is about the end of roaming. as a member of the committee on consumer protection, i have been very concerned from the outset about the abolition of the excessive price of mobile telephony. at the same time, it is also about net neutrality, a link between two independent issues, which i very much regret. i am against any discrimination on the internet all data packets must be treated equally and everyone must have the same access to the internet. unfortunately, net neutrality is not clearly stated in the telecom package. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations on the future of the european union, in particular by providing the necessary financial resources to the member states. we wanted a clear and europe-wide definition of net neutrality. unfortunately, a majority of the house voted against these amendments. the fight for net neutrality will continue in the meantime - we will bring it up again in the debate on the 'digital single market'. i will be back there to fight for a stronger understanding of net neutrality in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report 'trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other treatment or punishment' and the amendments tabled by the committee responsible, as i share the view that in a region of the world which prohibits the death penalty there is no market for products used for it.
in writing. ‒ the european union rightly does not have the death penalty. it is therefore consistent to prevent exports of goods used for the execution of death sentences.
in writing. ‒ the anti-torture regulation controls the items that are used or misused for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. annex ii governs the ban in trade of ‘single-use’ execution and torture items and remains unchanged, and annex iii deals with an export authorisation system for ‘multi-purpose’ items that could be misused (such as restraint chairs, beds fitted with straps and acoustic devices for the purpose of crowd/riot control). in order to avoid superfluous burdens restricting trade of products which have legitimate use, a union general export authorisation for countries that have taken international commitments is established. the european parliament has removed the following countries from the text proposed by the commission, as they still retain the death penalty in their legislation: benin, liberia, madagascar, mongolia, são tomé and principe. it has also added gabon because it ratified the second optional protocol to the international covenant on civil and political rights. a specific list of items provides clarity and eases compliance, and parliament’s proposal to include an urgency procedure providing for immediate application of the commission act will ensure that the annexes are updated swiftly with new products and technologies. this proposal was very likely to pass and i supported it.
in writing. ‒ the anti-torture regulation refers to products and goods that can be misused for torture, the execution of the death penalty or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. annex ii regulates the prohibition of trade in single-use goods and remains unchanged, and annex iii deals with an authorisation system for the export of multi-purpose items that could be misused. to avoid unnecessary trade burdens that could restrict trade in products, the european commission authorises the export of these goods to countries that comply with international agreements and commitments. countries that still carry out the death penalty and do not comply with these agreements and commitments will not be authorised, including benin, liberia, madagascar, mongolia and são tomé and príncipe. a specific list of products and goods provides clarity and facilitates compliance. that proposal was adopted and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the anti-torture regulation regulates products and goods that can be misused for torture, the execution of the death penalty or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. annex ii regulates the prohibition of trade in single-use goods and remains unchanged, and annex iii deals with an authorisation system for the export of multi-purpose items that could be misused. to avoid unnecessary trade burdens that could restrict trade in products, the european commission authorises the export of these goods to countries that comply with international agreements and commitments. countries that still carry out the death penalty and do not comply with these agreements and commitments will not be authorised, including benin, liberia, madagascar, mongolia and são tomé and príncipe. a specific list of products and goods provides clarity and facilitates compliance. that proposal was adopted and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the anti-torture regulation regulates products and goods that can be misused for torture, the execution of the death penalty or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. annex ii regulates the prohibition of trade in single-use goods and remains unchanged, and annex iii deals with an authorisation system for the export of multi-purpose items that could be misused. to avoid unnecessary trade burdens that could restrict trade in products, the european commission authorises the export of these goods to countries that comply with international agreements and commitments. countries that still carry out the death penalty and do not comply with these agreements and commitments will not be authorised, including benin, liberia, madagascar, mongolia and são tomé and príncipe. a specific list of products and goods provides clarity and facilitates compliance. that proposal was adopted and i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted with my group for the report on 'trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other treatment or punishment'. the anti-torture regulation contributes to the protection of human rights. by controlling instruments and measures that could be used for torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, the regulation clearly promotes the protection of human rights. the special importance of legal access to medicines and pharmaceuticals is emphasised. a system of regular reporting and review shall be established to adequately monitor the implementation of the member states' commitments. the prerogative of this regulation is to protect human rights, and i agree with that.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report 'automatic exchange of information in tax matters' because it is in the interests of our families, citizens, taxpayers and smes to put an end to the multi-billion tax fraud of multinational corporations in europe. this is only possible if the data is exchanged. keep it up!
in writing. ‒ every year, the eu loses a significant proportion of its tax revenue through opaque corporate structures that span several countries. it is therefore important to intensify crossborder cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the exchange of tax rulings of intergovernmental relevance between member states' administrations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. alfa is for transparent and therefore fair competition, both between companies and between states. the measures proposed in the report are designed to increase transparency in european tax competition and to reduce distortions in the taxation of different types of enterprises. the commission must be informed of this in order to fulfil its role as guardian of intergovernmental competition. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the exchange of tax rulings of intergovernmental relevance between member states' administrations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the commission will also have access to this data and will set up a central register. tax rulings are used to inform companies about the tax treatment of certain business activities. a tax ruling is a useful instrument in so far as it gives a company certainty about its planning. however, the luxleaks revelations have made it clear that tax rulings can also be abused. as a result, selective tax advantages were granted in some cases to internationally active companies by means of tax rulings. this puts smes that operate exclusively locally and nationally at a significant competitive disadvantage. alfa is for transparent and therefore fair competition, both between companies and between states. the measures proposed in the report are designed to increase transparency in european tax competition and to reduce distortions in the taxation of different types of enterprises. the measures are also likely to provide a more transparent framework for the competition between member states, which is desirable in principle, and thus to strengthen it. the commission must be informed of this in order to fulfil its role as guardian of intergovernmental competition. i fully support these concerns and voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the exchange of tax rulings of intergovernmental relevance between member states' administrations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the commission will also have access to this data and will set up a central register. tax rulings are used to inform companies about the tax treatment of certain business activities. a tax ruling is a useful instrument in so far as it gives a company certainty about its planning. however, the luxleaks revelations have made it clear that tax rulings can also be abused. as a result, selective tax advantages were granted in some cases to internationally active companies by means of tax rulings. this puts smes that operate exclusively locally and nationally at a significant competitive disadvantage. alfa is for transparent and therefore fair competition, both between companies and between states. the measures proposed in the report are designed to increase transparency in european tax competition and to reduce distortions in the taxation of different types of enterprises. the measures are also likely to provide a more transparent framework for and thus strengthen the desirable competition between member states. the commission must be informed of this in order to fulfil its role as guardian of intergovernmental competition. i fully support these concerns and voted for the report.
in writing. ‒ the report deals with the exchange of tax rulings of intergovernmental relevance between member states' administrations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the commission will also have access to this data and will set up a central register. tax rulings are used to inform companies about the tax treatment of certain business activities. a tax ruling is a useful instrument in so far as it gives a company certainty about its planning. however, the luxleaks revelations have made it clear that tax rulings can also be abused. as a result, selective tax advantages were granted in some cases to internationally active companies by means of tax rulings. this puts smes that operate exclusively locally and nationally at a significant competitive disadvantage. alfa is for transparent and therefore fair competition, both between companies and between states. the measures proposed in the report are designed to increase transparency in european tax competition and to reduce distortions in the taxation of different types of enterprises. the measures are also likely to provide a more transparent framework for and thus strengthen the desirable competition between member states. the commission must be informed of this in order to fulfil its role as guardian of intergovernmental competition. i fully support these concerns and voted for the report.
in writing. the directive discussed here is one of several initiatives purportedly aimed at preventing tax evasion. but companies are only accountable to their owners and the tax authorities, not to the eu authorities. the aim is to abolish tax competition by harmonizing tax bases at european level and to create the 'glass company'. i am firmly opposed to both and that is why i voted against this resolution. i reject the public's right to information on the tax affairs of companies on the basis of a simple fact: they are not public bodies but private bodies. listed companies are required to publish information relevant to the stock exchange. that's enough. the ep resolution is another step towards controlling entrepreneurship and eliminating tax competition between member states. the harmonization of the tax base is only the first step. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of taxation, in particular by ensuring that the rules on the taxation of savings income are applied in a fair and transparent manner. the strategic objective behind the politically correct demand for tax transparency by companies is not just the 'glass entrepreneur', but the 'glass citizen'.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint technology initiative (advanced research and technology for embedded intelligence and systems) supports research in the field of 'invisible computing'. this includes so-called 'embedded' computer systems that are used to operate other machines. i voted against the discharge because i believe that industry can finance such projects itself. this does not require a 'joint eu enterprise' financed by taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge for the artemis joint undertaking for the year 2013.
in writing. i did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. one of the main problems was the retrospective review of administrative arrangements and the remaining error rate.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report 'delivery 2013: european institute of innovation and technology (eit) ' today, as i consider the tax money spent on this too high and call for a stronger involvement of industry through third party funds. i also propose that the institute, together with a european university, be housed in the european parliament's buildings in brussels, once parliament has decided on the only sensible and contractually viable 'single seat' strasbourg.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the discharge of the european institute of innovation and technology for 2013.
in writing. i did not give my consent to the proposal for a decision of the european parliament on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2013. until the court of auditors has reviewed the budget, i shall vote against discharge. for the second year in a row, no reasonable assurance of the legality and regularity of the undertakings could be found.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report disclaimer 2013: eniac joint undertaking today because i believe that despite the public-private partnership approach, we are still investing too much taxpayer money in the european research platform for nanoelectronics. i expect a significant increase in the financial commitment of industry and the attraction of additional third-party funds.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the discharge for eniac for 2013.
in writing. i did not approve the eu parliament resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2013. i cannot support the report until the court of auditors has given a favourable opinion on the budget. a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions was published, highlighting the annual accounts. this is because it is impossible to determine whether the retrospective verification provides sufficient assurance for these transactions. in addition, there is a residual error rate and the risk of possible conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report disclaimer 2013: the eu's general budget european council and council, because the report despite the approval, thanks also to the successful objections of my group, puts its finger on the wounds that are opening year after year in the financing of the eu from taxpayers' money.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the discharge of the eu's general budget.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, section ii european council and council. i am opposed to any discharge for the implementation of the budget, as is the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. the council neither cooperates with parliament nor enters into dialogue with it. parliament has refused to discharge the secretary-general.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report 'the ebola crisis: long-term lessons and actions to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises' because i welcome the approach of a detailed review of the experience. as the author of a similar report in the acp delegation, i am calling for, among other things, the end of medical brainwashing from developing countries, a much greater eu commitment to building universal health coverage in affected countries, and the establishment of 'emergency centres' around the globe to ensure faster response.
in writing. ‒ the ebola crisis has shown how quickly diseases can spread from remote areas to europe. it has also been shown that there are still diseases that cannot yet be adequately controlled. the european union must actively support this.
in writing. i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the ebola crisis long-term lessons and actions to strengthen health systems in developing countries to prevent future crises. in the post-ebola phase, aid should focus on rebuilding health and the economy. the european development fund programme for sierra leone, liberia and guinea needs to be reviewed to meet the challenges posed by the ebola crisis. it is good that eu money is being spent wisely here - that is rare enough. the eu should not risk underfunding its humanitarian activities. the budget is really big enough for that.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on emission measurements in the automotive industry because i believe that it is important to have a new, updated and better method of monitoring, also in the wake of the vw scandal. i strongly condemn attempts by individual members to introduce amendments during this legislative process which are clearly and verifiably written by the automotive industry.
in writing. ‒ not only in the context of climate change, but also with the aim of ensuring an optimal quality of life in our cities and communities, it is important that we can reliably evaluate emissions from cars. for this we need a control system that is realistic and based on practical results.
in writing. ‒ despite several attempts by the alfa delegation to produce a balanced text, the resolution resulting from the vw scandal contains unfounded allegations of the complicity of the member states and the commission in the emissions scandal. the proposal prejudges the outcome of the ongoing investigations by calling for more eu supervision and new control rights for the commission with regard to authorisation procedures. some groups have used the vw scandal to insert their own ideological stakes, such as the suspension of the ttip negotiations, into this motion for a resolution. we need agreement between the member states and the european commission on uniform standards for future testing procedures. however, we are against further centralisation. member states and their competent authorities must retain the right to review approval procedures and, if necessary, to recall products, provided that they can demonstrate evidence of non-compliance with eu emission levels. it is also important to prevent scandals of this magnitude in an effective and objective manner. the manipulation by vw has nothing to do with the lack of representation in the current tests. the aim is to minimise the discrepancy between test results and real driving conditions. we therefore supported these points in the resolution but rejected the text as a whole.
in writing. ‒ despite several attempts by the alfa delegation to produce a balanced text, the resolution resulting from the vw scandal contains unfounded allegations of complicity of the member states and the commission in the emissions scandal. the proposal prejudges the outcome of the ongoing investigations by calling for more eu supervision and new control rights for the commission with regard to authorisation procedures. some groups have used the vw scandal to put their own ideological stakes in this motion for a resolution, such as the suspension of the ttip negotiations. we need agreement between the member states and the european commission on uniform standards for future testing procedures. however, we are against further centralisation. member states and their competent authorities must retain the right to review approval procedures and, if necessary, to recall products, provided that they can demonstrate evidence of non-compliance with eu emission levels. it is also important to prevent scandals of this magnitude in an effective and objective manner. the manipulation by vw has nothing to do with the lack of representation in the current tests. the aim is to minimise the discrepancy between test results and real driving conditions. i therefore supported these points in the resolution, but i rejected the text as a whole.
in writing. ‒ despite several attempts by the alfa delegation to produce a balanced text, the resolution resulting from the vw scandal contains unfounded allegations of complicity of the member states and the commission in the emissions scandal. the proposal prejudges the outcome of the ongoing investigations by calling for more eu supervision and new control rights for the commission in relation to authorisation procedures. some groups have used the vw scandal to insert their own ideological stakes, such as the suspension of the ttip negotiations, into this motion for a resolution. we need agreement between the member states and the european commission on uniform standards for future testing procedures. however, we are against further centralisation. member states and their competent authorities must retain the right to review approval procedures and, if necessary, to recall products, provided that they can demonstrate evidence of non-compliance with eu emission levels. it is also important to prevent scandals of this magnitude in an effective and objective manner. the manipulation by vw has nothing to do with the lack of representation in the current tests. the aim is to minimise the discrepancy between test results and real driving conditions. i therefore supported these points in the resolution, but i rejected the text as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the eu is committed to ambitious co2 and emission reductions. the 2020 targets can only be achieved with modern diesel technology and further electrification of vehicles. without diesel, we will not achieve these goals, because a diesel engine emits on average up to 20% less co2 than a comparable petrol engine. we cannot demonize this technology in general. diesel technology is mature, low-consumption, and emissions are manageable! what happened at volkswagen was fraud by individuals. of course, he must be brought to justice and punished accordingly. but neither technology in particular nor the automobile industry in general and its workforce as a whole should be subjected to general suspicion. to close the gap between real consumption and emissions, the eu is working on a new test cycle and an emissions test that better reflects real driving situations.
in writing. ‒ despite several attempts by the alfa delegation to produce a balanced text, the resolution resulting from the vw scandal contains unfounded allegations of complicity of the member states and the commission in the emissions scandal. the proposal prejudges the outcome of the ongoing investigations by calling for more eu supervision and new control rights for the commission with regard to authorisation procedures. some groups have used the vw scandal to insert their own ideological stakes, such as the suspension of the ttip negotiations, into this motion for a resolution. we need agreement between the member states and the european commission on uniform standards for future testing procedures. however, we are against further centralisation. member states and their competent authorities must retain the right to review approval procedures and, if necessary, to recall products, provided that they can demonstrate evidence of non-compliance with eu emission levels. it is also important to prevent scandals of this magnitude in an effective and objective manner. the manipulation by vw has nothing to do with the lack of representation in the current tests. the aim is to minimise the discrepancy between test results and real driving conditions. i therefore supported these points in the resolution, but i rejected the text as a whole.
in writing. fraud is fraud and must be punished. volkswagen was on fire. still, silence and politically correct disinterest surround the other carmakers. however, it is only a matter of time and a courageous whistleblower before irregularities are detected in other manufacturers. what's the matter? why is europe's largest car manufacturer (a german company) now being dismantled in such a way because of random inspections in the usa? is it fraud or the massive damage to german industry? drivers of all makes know that the manufacturer's fuel consumption figures are not the same as the reality on the road. the eu parliament, of course, does not miss the opportunity and takes a hasty position on the event. it calls for the immediate introduction of a new eu-level supervisory authority, accountability of 'glass companies' to the state (not their owners), new eu responsibilities and a tightening of eu emission limits which are obviously not sustainable anyway. the commissioner for industry, elzbieta bienkowska, who has been colourless and clueless, has joined the chorus today, sensing her chance and calling for the eu commission to monitor all national vehicle registration authorities. i reject that. the 'european single market' is not an argument for the national decision-making structures to shirk their responsibilities, especially the lower saxony state government and the federal ministry of transport. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are properly managed.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission work programme for 2016 (2015/2853 ((rsp)). i would point out that there is no catch-the-eye procedure in this debate and that the blue card procedure is not applicable either.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not president juncker spoke in parliament this morning in a very moving and clear way about the failure of the refugee policy. "good howl", we think. but what are the bold consequences? the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. no, social inequalities are often a breeding ground for rejection of european solutions, and in the worst cases for racism. good projects for employment and regional policy, for social and cultural integration or for consumer and data protection will in the end be merely repair programmes in your programme. the european union is a great example of the european union, and it is a great example of the european union, because without the elimination of the fundamental flaws in the european union, the best ideas are useless, and the european values of freedom, equality and solidarity remain mere words in the preambles and sunday speeches. you had the chance, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, but unfortunately, in our view, you did not take it.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the commission is not prepared to accept this. first of all, i would like to thank the committee on budgets for accepting our main demands. our central demands relate in particular to the three supervisory authorities we created in the financial crisis: to make the euro safer, to make the european union safer, to put the securities, banking and insurance sectors on a clearer, more clearly regulated, better footing. however, when we heard from the three supervisory authorities that some of the resources they have at their disposal are not sufficient to carry out even basic tasks, it was shocking to hear. we have asked for increases in certain areas. we are grateful that these have been taken up by the committee on budgets. we also want to remind the house that this will be taken into account even more in future budgetary planning, because the best control on paper is useless in practice if it is not adequately fed, and we have a clear need to catch up, particularly in the area of personnel.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the committee on international trade is concerned to have adequate staffing levels in the commission services so that the large number of agreements currently being negotiated can be properly and seriously negotiated and subsequently subjected to a reasonable evaluation. we need better public relations. we also want to continue the aid for trade project and we are also calling for a study on the role of ngos. but let me say something about the debate now with the council presidency: i have been dealing with budgetary matters in this house for a relatively long time. we need not let the council tell us anything about the logic and seriousness of the budgetary procedure. you're making this too easy. what was agreed with previous council presidencies, whether on the question of arrears, flexibility, front-loading and back-loading or the conditions attached to the efsi agreements, you are always quick to set aside. i 'll tell you what . the seriousness of your position, also in the 2016 budgetary procedure, will be shown to a large extent by whether you can prove at the time of the negotiations that the member states are not continuing to refuse to make adequate payments to the madad fund and to the fund for africa. the commission has already committed 20 million for each of these funds. the commission expects a further commitment of 501.8 billion. if you do not do this, you will be partly responsible for the fact that more refugees are making their way to europe, including the inadequate equipment of the united nations. that's your seriousness!
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: this draft budget is important for development cooperation because it responds to the new international challenges. we must address the current conflicts in africa, syria and iraq and the associated refugee flows in a european way, at the humanitarian, development and foreign policy levels. the eu must be more responsive in dealing with humanitarian disasters. i have campaigned for the s&d group to ensure that at least 26 million euros are allocated to the education of boys - and, i would stress, girls - in the refugee camps. we want to prevent a so-called lost generation. the many additional funds currently being set up or co-financed by the eu show that this is not enough. it is important that the member states finally clearly identify their shares and pay them without delay. these include the commission's new africa fund to tackle the causes of displacement, with a volume of eur 1.8 billion, and the madad fund to tackle the syrian refugee crisis, which is to be increased to eur 1 billion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. first of all, i would like to thank our rapporteur-general for his excellent cooperation in the preliminary stage of this debate and in the decision-making process tomorrow. i do not need to repeat his statement, which is fully shared by the socialist and democratic members of my group. the council must now admit colour. this morning many of the group leaders of this house have quite rightly criticised the fact that the council in one formation, with the greatest possible violations, is agreeing on something politically and the same council in its financial formation is not subsequently financing this agreement. the finance ministers now have a chance to fix it. but in the trilogue last monday afternoon it was still: managing the refugee crisis is important, but so is budgetary discipline. and that, ladies and gentlemen, mr minister, cannot be your last word, not for humanitarian reasons, not for budgetary reasons. i really believe that human lives are more important than budget discipline. and secondly, as far as the budgetary reasons are concerned: the council's approach and parliament's approach are just 4.3 billion euros apart. the commission's amending budget no 8 includes revenue in the eu budget from own resources and penalties, which would already cover a large part of this money. the same amending budget provides additional savings for the member states from gross national income, so that we find a net effect of 8 billion euros. so, there's money. the only thing standing in the way of the eu making a major contribution to alleviating the refugee crisis is the dogmatism of the member states on budgetary issues. the problem i have with the council, when i hear it talking about savings and budgetary discipline, is that when it comes to its own interests it does not take it quite so seriously. i have a big problem with the fact that we are talking about savings in this house, but at the same time the council is unable to agree on the appointment of new judges to the european court of justice, so that instead of 12 additional judges we get twenty-eight, because the member states are unable to agree otherwise than that each member state gets a second seat on the european court of justice. ladies and gentlemen, they are not walking, they have drivers, they have secretarial staff, they have staff. so the seriousness - and mr böge has already mentioned this - of the council's position on savings is a little damaged. i would like to thank mr gramegna for his report. please work to ensure that the council takes a positive view of the commission's letter of amendment no 2 and come to the conciliation with a different, changed and better council position!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. many important projects have been mentioned here today. but when we talk about the 2016 budget today, we are talking about the budget of the european parliament. one point: the cost of our travelling circus and the expensive second place of work in brussels. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i therefore call for a single seat in strasbourg. i call for an immediate halt to the welle plan for the multi-million dollar renovation of the dilapidated phs building. we're talking about a construction time of three years. we're talking about investments of up to 400 million euros. we're talking about renting 700 offices in brussels for the period. we are talking about the madness of a provisional plenary session. i don't know who in this house would come up with such a crazy plan. but let's be honest: investments of up to 1 billion euros to renovate two buildings that are already completely dilapidated after 20 years in the next four years. you can't explain that to any citizen, any taxpayer. we have a well-functioning building in strasbourg. we have a house with a european spirit and soul. let us now opt for the single-seat strasbourg. (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the israeli-palestinian conflict seems to be getting increasingly out of control politically. the civilian population on both sides is, as always, the main victim of the violence. both abbas' announcement that he is no longer bound by the oslo accords and netanyahu's recent statements in a completely historical manner make it difficult for us to commit ourselves to a fair two-state solution and to fight against all forms of anti-semitism. mrs mogherini, you are right to call for netanyahu and abbas to show leadership and take the lead in de-escalating the spiral of violence. you said you wanted to find a point of entry for the resumption of negotiations. then follow the example of the latest initiative by israeli writers and arab intellectuals under the motto "israel needs cultural bridges instead of boycotts". and please, please apply this thinking equally to all of israel's neighbors. the european union must be able to take action to combat this scourge, and we must be able to take action to combat it. but that, dear mrs mogherini, requires concrete action rather than calls and appeals. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the recent call by writers and intellectuals, for example, is a very concrete way that can lead to building bridges instead of fuelling conflict.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the situation in israel and palestine is extremely worrying. i strongly support the call by our eu high representative for foreign affairs, mrs mogherini, for de-escalation on both sides - israelis and palestinians. i thank you very much for the steps you have outlined earlier on how these negotiations must now proceed. it is good that you, mrs mogherini, together with us secretary of state kerry and foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier, have had intensive talks with all parties involved over the past week. i am glad that the agreement on camera surveillance on the temple mount in jerusalem was a first step towards calming the situation. but a lasting de-escalation can only succeed if both sides also use their rhetoric. i therefore deeply regretted that the israeli prime minister, before his visit to germany last week, had called the grand mufti of jerusalem the main person responsible for the murder of the jews in europe. as a historian, it is particularly important to me that the responsibility of the germans for the holocaust is not relativized. i would also ask you to ensure that eu parliamentarians have access to the gaza strip during the negotiations. the eu is the one that is giving unrwa a lot of support, and it is very important that we get a sense of how our humanitarian support is actually developing on the ground, or what successes it has had and how we can improve it.
i have to say, madam president, since september we have witnessed a new wave of attacks by palestinian terrorists against the israeli civilian population. at the same time, we are again witnessing a real campaign in which lies are being built up and just real myths are being told that are not oriented at all towards the truth. i think we should pay very close attention to what's really going on. i think israel has not changed its policy on the temple mount. in 2014, millions of people went to the temple mount and visited it. three and a half million were muslims, 200,000 were christians, 12,000 were jews. and only muslims are allowed to pray there. i think israel is doing a lot here to defend the sanctuaries of all faiths. there is hardly a country that has three public holidays: friday, saturday, sunday. i'd like to leave it at that.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. once again, a debate in parliament on the situation in south sudan. how many times? the positive thing is that we are not turning our eyes away from the fate of the people in this country. at the end of august, a peace agreement was reached between the leaders of the opposing groups, president salva kiir and former vice-president riek machar. but how many peace treaties have there been since the civil war broke out? however, as the high representative has pointed out, the killing continues. apparently, killing has already become an end in itself for many there. and when you see that children already know nothing else, that a whole generation has grown up only in war and violence, then you see that there is also a humanitarian catastrophe. the deaths of tens of thousands of people, caused by the drought now taking place, have already been mentioned. the recent peace agreement between the parties to the conflict was only produced by strong external pressure. but president kiir was still talking about a forced peace agreement on the day of the signing of the agreement not a good sign. the pressure on the authorities in south sudan must not be allowed to subside, and the eu and its member states should stand with the united states and not rule out sanctions against the leaders of south sudan if they do not implement this peace agreement and finally give peace to their citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. thank you, mr president, and thank you, madam commissioner. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr fernando ruas. he has produced an excellent report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy. on the one hand, this is an important assessment of what has already happened in recent years in the context of structural policy and this strategy. on the other hand, it is already the beginning of a debate on the future of cohesion policy, and we must indeed start now. the new funding period makes it very clear that investment in infrastructure projects, including telecommunications projects, investment in research and technology, support for smes, sustainable development, investment in the labour market and the fight against unemployment are important components of this cohesion policy, to name just a few. we need such investments in the future to support regions, cities and communities. this cannot be done by an investment plan as mr juncker has put forward. this requires the involvement of local people in the regions and the direct involvement of citizens in the regions. this is something that only cohesion policy can do. and the fact that all regions can participate in accordance with their capacity is an important part of the solidarity-based cohesion policy that we will need in the future. our efforts in the old legislature, and in the new period of support, to achieve simplification of procedures, seem to have been only partially successful, however, as complaints are coming from both the administrative bodies and the applicants. this cannot be ignored, especially when we consider that we have standardized administrative costs in the european regional fund. if we are then shown at the hearing that we now need a thick book to explain what the administrative costs are, then that is over. i therefore welcome the establishment of these high-level working groups in the commission on simplification. i would like very, very quickly to have very concrete proposals for actual simplification.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am a clear supporter of cohesion and structural policies, on one condition: that cohesion policy should remain regional policy. this means that europe's regions, cities and communities, and civil society groups, must participate in the opportunities offered by this policy area. participation here is not just about having access to the financial resources, but also about being involved in the design and implementation of the programme. and that's where we have our problems at the moment. i hear many complaints that there was little flexibility in the way programmes were designed, that there were strict guidelines, that national interests often took precedence over what the regions wanted, that even in the programme management, different rules apply to the different areas of the funds, making it almost impossible to link what we wanted from different funds, and that the bureaucratic effort to implement projects has increased rather than decreased. we are now at the end of the second year of the new programming period, but many programmes have not yet been implemented. if we fail to resolve the problems raised relatively quickly - and that is the purpose of our request today - then i see difficult times ahead for the continuation of cohesion, structural and regional policy beyond 2020.
i have to say, madam president, the adriatic-ionian region is currently the focus of attention, including the refugee crisis. and i think this owninitiative report is really meant to make us think in principle about how we can support economically the countries most affected by this - whether it is slovenia, italy in the southern region or greece. and the structural funds set up by the european union are of course of excellent use in this respect. we have a budget of 147 billion euros. of this, over 50 billion goes to countries whose economic performance is below 75% of gdp. it is very important that we focus these investment initiatives on this. whether it is erdf funds, transport infrastructure basic condition for economic development can bring small or medium-sized enterprises to settle there and receive additional investment aid. the commission has also proposed that the esf should be used to finance the training of workers in the member states. the people must have a future there too, in the tourist sector. i am a member of the committee on fisheries. we need to invest in fishing ports. we must invest in the small craft enterprises that have a chance there. the only sectors which can be supported are tourism and fisheries. i think it's incredibly important that we regain trust in europe. i am convinced that the european union must be able to take action to help the poorest countries in the world.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament is unique in the world. nowhere else do people have the opportunity to vote in a common house of commons in 28 countries. yes, that is the only place in the world where it exists, the european union. but we know that these elections across 28 countries are causing a number of problems. although we have had eight european elections, little has been done to remedy the shortcomings of this european election. that is why we are now making a new attempt to put forward proposals for the next european elections in 2019 to make them more transparent and democratic and - it has to be said - to make them more european. mrs hübner has already indicated that we want to make recommendations to the member states and also to change the 1976 electoral act. the recommendations are aimed at widening access to the european elections. we believe that the young generation should be invited to participate in these elections. many young people could be voting in european elections for the first time at the age of 16. such a turnout may mark their lives for a long time. we therefore think that the member states should consider, as austria has already done, lowering the voting age to 16. i also believe that the young generation is the internet generation, who would rather make a voting act with a click than go to the town hall or a school building. that too can be checked, into the future. in many countries, too, the vote by mail is not permitted. not everyone is home on sunday or election day. the postal vote has helped in many countries. the serious preparation of the european elections is another matter. we have found that in some countries the voting lists are not completed until 17 days before the election. i don't know how you can campaign in a place like that 17 days before the election. we're saying at least 12 weeks. we can then campaign for three months in the rather large constituencies that we all represent. and then we want to emphasize above all the european character of the european elections. we often have national debates, national disputes, and the european dimension is totally lost. we must make this visible, in tv spots, on campaign materials, on ballot papers, and if it is national policy that the names of the parties should appear there, then the european party families should also appear. above all, european parties should also identify their top candidates for the office of president of the commission in good time at least 12 weeks before the election. a huge step forward would be gender equality; we think it can be achieved fifty-fifty. many parties, many countries are doing this already, why not others? maybe 2019 is a little early. we think it can be reached in 2024. we also want to achieve equality of opportunity for voting everywhere. 26 countries have minimum thresholds of 3%. why not the other two countries? we suggest a minimum of 3%, but a maximum of 5%. some wanted to go much further: transnational lists. i'm all for it. but we've decided to take it to the next level. this is something that should be included in the report that the afco committee will be drawing up, because this parliament has failed to do so on several occasions. this calls for a deeper debate. i hope that you will agree with these pragmatic proposals. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr leinen, are you familiar with these two analyses both on european electoral law? you're old enough. you'd have to be farsighted enough to see them, one from february, one from september. one of the one with the recognized voting rights expert and former colleague andrew duff, one without him. one with a clear no to the eu-wide lockdown, one with a yes. do you not think it is strange that we have two expensive studies in six months with two completely different results, and i mean that (the president interrupts the speaker).
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. my dear colleague! we've discussed this at the afco committee several times. we believe that all 28 countries have equal voting opportunities. we have a situation today where in one or two countries you can win a mandate with 0.6 per cent of the vote, while in other countries you need at least 3 per cent. it is not balanced, 3% for all was our proposal, and this is the latest policy line that the majority in the afco committee has decided.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. i am not sure that the commissioner is aware of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it can achieve a great deal politically, but it must be measured by the question of who it ultimately serves. will strengthening public space in europe help to overcome the longstanding silence between citizens and politicians in europe? and does it provide more active and passive political participation for those who have been excluded, including gender parity? the great flaw in the report, dear co-rapporteurs, despite all the good intentions - and i emphasize this once again today - is that it simply does not take a bold approach to reform, but instead gets bogged down in anticipating political con stellations in the council and thus ends up being more self-sufficient. the report does not seek to create political spaces and extended opportunities for participation, but rather to manage technically what cannot be controlled: the dynamics of political life and the corresponding discourses in the societies of the member states. i do not think that democratic change can be reconciled with the identity assumed in the report between the interests of the citizens of europe and those of the german grand coalition in berlin. a major german bourgeois newspaper has clearly characterized the process of introducing a blocking clause as a provocation against the german federal constitutional court. why do we have to go this way?
i have to say, madam president, the federal constitutional court has declared the five-percent threshold for the eu election in germany unconstitutional. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. that is why the spd and the union and the greens want to reinstate the lock-out clause. you have suggested that the work here in the house is being disrupted by the small parties. that argument is dead. the federal constitutional court made this clear in its 2014 ruling, and rightly so. i don't think that count lambsdorff of the fdp or mr. sonneborn of the fun party will be a bother to anyone in this house. ladies and gentlemen of the spd and the union, please be honest. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is already in the process of adopting a new proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. that is not democratic, mr leinen, that is transparent, and that is bad!
i have to say, madam president, the reform of european electoral law is to be tackled by a large majority in parliament, although the respect of subsidiarity has always been the main focus. i do not see any reason to introduce a 3% blocking clause, since it concerns only two of the 28 countries in particular, namely spain and germany. the arguments that the small parties are not getting into the political groups and would jeopardize the functioning of parliament can also be easily refuted. we have two judgments in germany by the federal constitutional court against blocking clauses, and these are to be circumvented. the result would be that 8 million votes would be disregarded in the future. this is detrimental to democracy and encourages political disillusionment. i can say that i am the member who has received the most votes 428 800 . in my country, that is only 1.6%, but it is more than the population of malta. and that's why i have the legitimacy to do it!
thank you very much, madam president. the introduction of a 3 or 5% threshold concerns - as has already been said - only germany and spain, because these are the only countries which have more than 26 members of parliament on the one hand, and on the other hand no blocking clause at present. what would it mean if we were to introduce a lock-in clause? the justice for smaller countries that you speak of, mr leinen, is not a question of justice. let's look at the numbers. in luxembourg, 3% is equivalent to about 12 000 votes. in germany, 3 percent is ten times that. if you take the members of parliament, because germany is disadvantaged in this proportion, then there are 30 times as many. is this democracy? i would also like to point out that the votes are allocated by the smaller parties to the larger ones, that is to say, the larger ones have a genuine interest in getting votes now that the voters (the president interrupts the speaker) have voted for the new government.
i have to say, madam president, i condemn the fact that the spd, cdu and csu are leading the way in abusing their report to enforce the reintroduction of a three-percent barrier, in complete ignorance of the decision of the federal constitutional court. i'm saying you're afraid of the courage of the little ones. a colleague at csu recently said, "we're watching you now". it shows me you've underestimated us. the voters, on the other hand, are appreciating us more and more. i call it the asterix principle: small, but ooh. am i a threat to democracy? why would you do that? because i've handled more cases than most of my colleagues have in ten years? because i am one of the five most active german meps? because i take the concerns of the citizens of the large constituency of germany seriously? because i speak up for the families? if you take your job as seriously as i do, you'll be competing fairly with us asterix! but stop ignoring the federal constitutional court! the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined.
thank you very much, madam president. i think this proposal is definitely a lost opportunity. if we consider that in the present situation, probably almost all german members of parliament would be prepared to vote in favour of any proposal for a european electoral law, just to get back their beloved exclusion clause, then i have to say to the rapporteurs: yes, then take the opportunity, make an ambitious proposal and actually introduce transnational lists! the european dimension of the european elections is not increased by putting the logo of a european party on the ballot paper or by excluding small parties from the parliament. the european dimension is increased by actually getting members from different countries to work together and find common political positions. that's what transnational lists would do. but this proposal is simply unambitious and a very obvious way of trying to remove small german parties from parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would also like to thank all those who took part in the debate. mr schöpflin said that a minimum threshold was fine, but it should not be too high. well, what did we do? we have looked at what is available in 26 member states. there is a minimum threshold of 3% in all countries, either by law or by practice, and we have now proposed it for two other countries where it is not there. it is not too high, but it is the norm in most of our countries, and there it is practiced and exists and is accepted. in fact, ladies and gentlemen, our german constitutional court has delivered this judgment. but it also opened the door to a minimum threshold. it said: 'as long as there is no european law, we will judge our country as we have done.' and it also said that we must watch the development of the european parliament. the new powers, the new tasks of electing a european executive - as we did in the election of the president of the commission - would also change their judgment on the zero-percent clause. well, i think that's a bit of a one-sided argument. i understand that from the very small parties, but it is not right to present it in such a one-sided way. i am also encouraged by the colleagues who have said that we should have gone much further. we have, however, understood from the experience of the last period that we are advocating a two-stage approach. the first stage, which is possible, is now, and then we will come back with further proposals which very likely will also have to be decided in a convention in a wider consultation with national parliaments and national governments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we can't have that here, as the last period has shown. i would just like to say that this is a milestone, as commissioner crețu said, compared to the decades in which nothing happened. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is a big step forward, and we should not miss this opportunity. because if we miss it, there will be no electoral reform in this period, and we will then be back on the old paths in 2019, which have proven to be very deficitary. i would like to say one last thing: those who do not accept that we are elected in our own member states, but at the moment when we are here in parliament, representing the whole of the eu and not just our member states, cannot be helped. we know that there are eurosceptics and anti-europeans. we can make suggestions as we wish, they will always be against. they're a minority, and they should stay a minority.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members of parliament, i am pleased to have this opportunity to set out the aims and substance of the commission’s proposal to amend the regulation on genetically modified food and feed prior to the vote later today. let me recall that this proposal derives directly from the set of political guidelines on the basis of which this commission was appointed, especially under the heading of a union of democratic change – this is very important, a union of democratic change. we are in a very paradoxical situation and our proposal aims to solve it. on the one hand, european union citizens seem to be sceptical about gmos in many member states, and yet gmos are authorised in the european union only after a comprehensive risk assessment which confirms a high level of safety. but part of european union society is still against gmos and this creates a democratic deficit in the european union. on the other hand, eu livestock protein producers are extremely dependent on imports of protein crops, which are mostly genetically modified soya. these gmos are widely used to feed animals, even in the member states who vote against gmo products, and european union livestock producers need a legally sound authorisation mechanism. let me recall that before the commission takes its decision on gmo authorisation it consults member states, first in a standing committee and then, if there is no clear opinion from the standing committee, in the appeal committee. in this way the member states twice have the possibility to express their views. under comitology rules, if member states reach a qualified majority in favour of a draft commission authorisation, the commission adopts it. if the member states reach a qualified majority against the draft, the commission cannot adopt its draft authorisation. in case of no opinion, gmo and comitology legislation requires the commission to adopt a decision alone. in the specific case of gmos, member states have never reached a qualified majority either in favour or against the draft authorisation proposed by the commission. the result has been a ‘no opinion’ for the 67 gm food and feed authorisations granted. most of the member states who voted against or abstained did not challenge the risk assessment, but instead openly invoked national political reasons. therefore, by failing to draw the line between yes and no, member states leave the final decision solely to the commission. this situation is indeed unique because thousands of other decisions are adopted without difficulty under the comitology procedure in other sectors. this situation creates tensions and deepens a democratic deficit in the european union. it is highly unsatisfactory as it contributes to a climate of distrust against the european union and its institutions. mr president, honourable members, the time has come for everyone to step up and take their full responsibilities. the commission’s proposal sets out a pragmatic and legally—sound way forward, consistent with the subsidiarity principle. member states are already using the directive on gmo cultivation – thanks to this house, because the directive was adopted here – and it shows that this model provides a workable framework to give the possibility to member states to better take account of national circumstances. today’s proposal follows the same logic. the legislative proposal on gm food and feed would give clear roles to the commission and member states. the commission would retain responsibility for granting european marketing authorisations for safe gmos, while member states would hold full responsibility for deciding whether or not to use them on their territory in respect of their national political reasons. i am not aware of an alternative approach that could properly address the challenge at stake and respect at the same time the european union institutional framework. for example, changing the comitology regulation just for gmos would clearly pose a problem of equal treatment compared with other systems of pre-authorisation. this would also run the risk of not allowing the commission to take a decision, be it an approval or a rejection, on an application. changing the voting rules would also be problematic. these rules are set out in the treaty to ensure the democratic balance between the respective weights of the 28 member states. some suggested that what is needed is not to change the system of authorisation but to improve the risk assessment of gmos. let me recall that continuous efforts are made by the commission and efsa to ensure that gmo risk assessments are based on the very highest standards of science and independence. the most recent development was the adoption two years ago of a regulation reinforcing and clarifying the requirements of gm food and feed applications. it was supported by a qualified majority of member states, but this adoption had no influence on the voting behaviour of the same member states which continue to invoke political reasons. mr president, honourable members, i am well aware of the questions this house has raised regarding this proposal, and that members are considering the adoption of a resolution to reject it. i would regret that very much. i believe an open and serious debate would be beneficial to our institutions and would bring the european union closer to its citizens and solve problems of democratic deficit. should you choose to reject this proposal, the commission will continue to apply the legislation which was adopted by the european parliament and by the council. the member states will still not take a clear position, they will remain led by national political considerations and, without challenging the european union risk assessment or demonstrating that gmos are unsafe, they will not give a clear vote but leave full responsibility for this decision only to the commission. farmers will continue using gmos to feed their livestock, willingly or unwillingly, and european citizens will be sceptical about gmos in many member states. this would be a last opportunity to give a concrete answer to genuine and legitimate concerns of european citizens, which undermine not just the gmo authorisation system but also confidence in the european union itself. i therefore urge you to reflect again very carefully on the full consequences of your decision before proceeding to vote. we are proposing an additional democratic mechanism to reinforce the legitimacy of the european union decisions on gmos.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the commission has proposed that member states should be responsible for the import of food and feed in the event of genetic modification. commissioner, we cannot agree to such a proposal. i was ten years old when the treaties of rome were signed in 1957. one of the great achievements of the european union is a free internal market. if we were to allow national registration again here, then border controls would basically be necessary again in europe. i think that the other debate on border controls in europe is enough. we do not need any more border controls on the import of animal feed. the committee on agriculture rejected this proposal by a large majority. i am in favour of the epp group, for whom i am also speaking, making it quite clear that we reject this commission proposal because we do not want production to be moved from europe to other countries, to other continents. we are dependent on imported food. we are only 30% self-sufficient in protein feed. i am therefore in favour of rejecting this proposal.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm very happy for you, giovanni la via. the epp group naturally supports the report and we support it as envi and agri have decided, that is to say without amendments. the commission's proposal goes against all the principles which this commission and we in the european union have set for ourselves. it has no impact assessment, it is not feasible. i support what mr deß has said: we do not want to introduce new border controls either. but without border controls, the proposal would not be feasible. we are going to have huge problems with third countries. or, as the question is also open, is the proposal not serious at all? are the limits on the member states which are also included so strict that no one could do it in the end? then it wouldn't be serious. that is why we will reject it. i find it particularly absurd that the commission is still sticking to this proposal and telling us that, on the other hand, when cloning animals, the european parliament's demands are unenforceable. they refuse to accept a regulation on reproductive material, semen and embryos. you even refuse to accept a label for the first generation because you say it's not feasible. this is child's play compared to the proposal we are discussing this morning. of course, the breeders know the reproductive material and they can also tell whether it's from cloned animals or not. otherwise, they wouldn't pay for it if they didn't know it was particularly good material. so, commissioner, if you withdraw this gmo proposal and go to parliament with other proposals, you are on the right track!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. thank you very much, mr president. i am not saying that the commission has not taken the necessary steps to ensure that the directive is implemented. you've been trying to resolve a situation that seems very difficult. the commission has already proposed a number of amendments to the proposal, including a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. that's the way it is at the moment. the member states must then decide whether they wish to follow the council's advice. and you mentioned it, there is never a qualified majority in the standing committee. it is usually like this: one third is for, one third is against and one third abstains. that's a problem for you, because then you have to come up with solutions and make a decision. you yourself said that this is unsatisfactory for the commission, that this is unique - especially in the case of genetically modified organisms - and you want a solution. president juncker has promised us, the parliament, that he will try to change the voting pattern in the standing committee. but that's not exactly what happened here. if there was a better solution, we might be further along. and that's exactly what's not happening here. you said that it is problematic to change the procedure or the voting behaviour. but the thing is, right now, you're going around in circles, and it's almost about who gets black peter. the commission does not want black peter, let us say in german. but she has to find a solution. it is up to the member states or to us, the parliament. we think that the proposal you have made is not going to get us anywhere. but the situation we have at the moment is not good either. it's a pretty dead end story. i think that the commission should take the opportunity to make a new and better proposal, one which actually does not require border controls, which allows for the internal market and which also includes the scientific knowledge which the commission is trying to promote, so that it can be implemented. i know this is a difficult task for you. but i don't think it is unsolvable. that is why i will be advocating for my group that we ask you for a new proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. it is not a question of banning or allowing gmos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's not the way. i said that what we need above all is what mr juncker promised: a voting procedure for the standing committee which is really effective. we don't have that right now. so it is not a question of banning or allowing genetic engineering. this is precisely the point that divides us here today - i know that - and also divides the member states. it is a question of having a procedure which is really fair to the internal market.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague grossetête, i would like to thank you for your reply. it has been said before, and we know it: the member states are divided. it is not the majority that would be against gmos, then we would have a clear majority. it's really very close. you just said that efsa makes scientific decisions. the commission has already taken account of the need to ensure that the rules on the protection of the environment are respected. it has now been proposed that a moratorium be put in place until a new proposal is made. what do you think the implications would be?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think the commission is simply playing it wrong. how can you expect to win the majority with a bill like this? i think the commission simply wanted to get rid of this issue with this draft law. this is not acceptable, the bill. the commission has been very active in the fight against the spread of the disease, and it is not surprising that the commission has been able to take a number of initiatives to combat it. but there is the promise of the president of the commission. he has told us here that the majority will of the citizens and the majority will of the states must be taken into account. and then some lousy bill. well, you're not gonna get away with it. you have to put a new bill on the table. and we definitely need a new risk assessment by the efsa. the efsa is always suspected of winking at anything that involves genetic engineering without doing a risk analysis that really meets the challenges. we need a european protein strategy. we can produce protein in europe too. we don't have to import all of our soybeans from overseas. we need, and this is quite clear, labelling of foodstuffs produced with genetically modified feed, meat and milk. this would also boost consumer confidence. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i told you, i think it's just a clumsy job. it is a question of how the commission can put something like this on the table without a risk assessment, without taking into account the concerns of the wto. it's a bad job, that's all i can say. if the commission had done a good job here, we could have been talking about a bill which really takes account of what has been said here and of the will of the majority. we want less imports of genetic engineering.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. you have pointed out that we have decided and introduced an opt-out system for the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in parliament. i want to tell you: it seems plausible that this is now being done for the application and use of genetically modified organisms. but it can't work. the commission has already made it clear that the internal market is clearly the opposite. you'd have to check every border, but you'd have to check every single truck. no one can want that. we are talking here - you have said this before - mainly about animal feed, genetically modified feed such as soy and maize, which is used in animal feed in the eu. the eu is completely dependent on it. we import 30 million tonnes of soya-bean fodder and we produce only 2 million tonnes in the eu, the rest comes from third countries, some of which grow up to 95% genetically modified soya. i am expecting a new proposal from you, and i am expecting - as mr häusling has just said - that we will clearly promote protein feed production in europe: lupins, peas, beans - they grow in europe too!
member of the commission.– madam president, even though air pollution in the european union has significantly decreased over the recent decades, we still have a very long way to go. as julie girling has already pointed out, more than 400 000 people die prematurely every year because of poor air quality, not to mention the increasing number of chronic respiratory diseases. the severe air pollution episodes in north-west europe in the spring once again demonstrated that pure air is as much an environmental as a health concern. we breathe polluted air even if we cannot often see or smell it. the situation is unacceptable. however, it is avoidable. this is why i am so keen for us to make progress in the negotiations on the directive on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants. this proposal is a key part of the commission’s clean air policy package and an important deliverable for the 7th environment action programme. every month that passes we are delaying the implementation of policies that could save lives, that could reduce respiratory problems and that could reduce the cost of health care and absenteeism from work. that is why i very much hope that we – meaning parliament, the council and the commission – can come to a viable agreement during a possible first reading. i will take this opportunity to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, julie girling, and her colleagues from the environment committee for their commitment and for their hard work on the proposal. i would also like to acknowledge the opinions of the committee on industry, research and energy and committee on agriculture and rural development. to maintain their chances of first reading agreement, it will be very important that the positions of the co-legislators do not diverge too much. the commission proposal is a well-balanced package and represents a major reduction in health impacts of 52% by the year 2030. these figures are supported by a solid and a substantial impact assessment, by scientific evidence and by cost-benefit analysis. to give the best prospects of early resolution i would ask parliament, as i have already asked the council in june, to support the level of ambition in the commission’s proposal. to achieve this, efforts are needed from all sectors. the cost of current legislation falls almost entirely on industry, transport and households. only 2% of these large costs fall on agriculture. to move forward, sectors that have so far contributed little will need to do more. agricultural emissions make the largest relative contribution to pm2.5 in europe through ammonia emissions. for instance, the major air pollution problem in paris in the spring of 2014 was predominantly caused by agricultural pollution. it is important to counter some claims being made on the impact of agriculture. there is no need to change to structure of the agriculture sector. no action is needed from small farms, and there is no need to push for intensification or to reduce animal numbers. we focus on applying good practice and existing technology in large industrial farms, while providing support for implementation under the rural development programme. with regards to methane, where some members have concerns, this is increasingly driving background concentration of ground-level ozone in the eu, and has a strong climate impact. the proposed reductions will help us argue for similar reductions across the hemisphere. to conclude, the commission proposal represents a balanced and a cost-effective distribution of effort. the implementation costs are far outweighed by the benefits to society, including reduced healthcare costs, increased productivity and opportunities for new jobs in a developing green economy. together we can deliver a major improvement to the health of the european union citizen. so i would like to invite members to support the proposal before them.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group, i would like to thank rapporteur julie girling and all the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. i think we can agree on the basic objective: we must improve air quality in europe to protect the health of our citizens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the epp also calls for the introduction of a european tax system for the benefit of all citizens. the increase in the already ambitious reduction targets resulting from the vote in the environment committee is unacceptable. the opinions of the agriculture committee and the industry committee have not been sufficiently taken into account. the two committees call for methane to be excluded from the scope of the directive, as methane should also be regulated through climate policy. mr huitema has just put it very well. the very ambitious reduction targets for ammonia remain unacceptable and will lead to significant disadvantages for european agriculture. we therefore call on the commission to review this and to call for attainable and appropriate targets for a balanced approach between improving air quality and maintaining the competitiveness of our agriculture. not that some of our colleagues might misunderstand us. the epp is not opposed in principle to mercury being included in the scope of the directive. but our policy should be based on a sound impact assessment, and we are also calling for this for mercury uptake. goals must be realistic and attainable. in this context, i hope that we can find a balanced approach and then quickly start negotiations with the council. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr gieseke. i have another request for methane reduction. many letters from the profession have reached us. my question is: can one goal of reducing methane be reconciled with the other goal of improving animal welfare? what is your opinion?
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive. thank you, mr. year! that's a good question. i think it's very difficult to reduce in the methane area. we'd have to build stables with ventilation systems. you can potentially intervene in the animal population and just reduce the animal population. i don't think that's in the best interest of the animals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course, we have a huge problem with air quality. and when scientific studies tell us that over 400,000 people die prematurely every year because of our unclean air, then we have to do something. that is why we were proud to have managed to keep this proposal alive. a year ago the commission was in a majority position to withdraw it, and we have managed to keep it on the table. i think we should remember that when we vote this afternoon. because we as the epp see the danger that the tightening up introduced by the majority in the environment committee will lead us back to a situation where we will achieve nothing in the end, where the forces which do not want the regulation to win the day because they say that parliament is exaggerating. and i think that in some places parliament is going too far. if i look at the proposal for ammonia, 2025 for my country, which i know best, germany, 46% reduction. environmentalists, who are really very green, say 33 percent is a realistic target. well, that's where the committee overshares. i therefore ask the honourable members to refer essentially to the commission's proposal. this is also the red line for the epp. if there's any escalation, we can't be part of it for a number of reasons. we are prepared to do something about mercury, but only after an impact assessment has been carried out. i hope that we will soon have a large majority in favour of a text which is close to the commission's proposal and which rejects the unrealistic demands of the committee on the environment. thank you very much.
thank you very much, madam president. air pollution is a huge problem. i just remember that a few days ago, when we were discussing the emissions scandal, everyone said: we need to have stronger regulations, we need to do something about it now. now, before we even start negotiating with the council, some people in this parliament are already on the brake pedal. i must say, that surprises me a lot. everyone recognizes that we have 400,000 premature deaths in the european union. the difference between the commission and the european parliament, that is 43 000 deaths, with what the environment committee has discussed and then decided. that is why we should maintain this level and fight for it in the negotiations. surely we must be willing to compromise. i think that is the case for every group here. but we should not go to waste and throw all levels of ambition overboard. on the mercury issue, i would ask that we make a sensible decision today. the commission has ten years. the commission has also taken its time with real driving emissions. i hope that in ten years' time we will have clear rules on mercury, as we have on industrial emissions. but there must also be control: what good are the most beautiful decisions on paper if at the end of the day there are no controls and everything is just a paper tiger? so i ask you to take some mercury with you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this house has made the same mistake over and over again, committing itself to goals that are not achieved because they cannot be achieved. the s&d group has already seen to it that the agreed energy efficiency targets were suddenly raised from 27% to 40% in the pargneaux report. today we are discussing the girling report. and what happens? the greens and the socialists have raised some of the limits to completely unrealistic levels. they are consciously accepting that there is no agreement, ladies and gentlemen, and that in the case of emissions, you need an agreement. that is also true of the meeting in paris. parliament is endangering the legislative process. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only one to have a say in the future of the single currency. (cheers and applause)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask you, mr president, to give us some information on how we can regulate air quality in europe. that is what the commission has done. mrs girling has done that very well and i think that between the two proposals lies the sensible course we must take in europe. we should not always treat health policy so poorly. a lot of people suffer from it. in my country, mr president, every day 8,000 more cars are registered. it's obvious that we need to talk about air, but you don't have to pretend to be the savior of the world. i think it's a very normal realistic policy, where you have to move. the industry is already heavily involved in many other areas. i think in this case we have to come to the principle: we need more shoulders. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not left to the detriment of the community's own resources. i'd like to be part of that. this must also be done through the structural funds. 95% of ammonia comes from agriculture. i'm a farmer myself, and i know that's not a pleasant job. but we must work on that: fair and realistic. i would like to make myself available and i would like to support the main corridor between the commission and mrs girling.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the vote today will decide whether sustainable agriculture and forestry with livestock farming will continue in the european union. agriculture and forestry, with its upstream and downstream sectors, is one of the most important economic factors in europe. the best quality food and food products are produced here, and a lot of jobs are created. it is not sensible to jeopardise all this by exaggerated reductions in ammonia and methane. of course, we are in favour of achievable targets with scientific support, and you can be sure that farmers have nothing more at heart than the future of the planet. but, ladies and gentlemen, this vote will be the decisive vote for agriculture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i ask you to take this into account when you vote.
the commission has already done so. cows produce methane -- it sounds weird, but it's true, it's natural and it's hard to prevent. unless you slaughter the cow or you get the animals from the pasture, you pack them in a tight stall, you build a filter system over them and it's good. it is funny that it is the environmentalists and the greens who want to impose such nonsense on our farmers, our family farms. let's not make a fool of ourselves. if we take methane out of the scope of the directive, we will stop this european air raid on the grazing cow! i have tabled eight amendments with my polish colleagues, which exclude methane and make the limit values for ammonia realistic. leave the cows in the pasture and get your hands off the methane ban! i would like to ask you to support the amendments, to support our farming industry and to show that you are also an animal lover. i do not want us to throw aside the conservation efforts of the last 20 years and force the cows back into the cowshed with such decisions today.
thank you, mr president. i have only one point to make to my group: there is an error in our voting list on page 15. this concerns amendment no 20 by the green group to paragraph 28 of the political resolution. the amendment is marked with a minus in our list, but we want to approve it, so there must be a plus.
rapporteur.– mr president, european electoral law is one of the two cases where this parliament has a right of initiative, so it is very important that we debate this thoroughly. i think it is wise to have two more weeks to reflect in the political groups and delegations about how we handle this very important dossier for our house. so i agree with ms hübner that we should postpone it to the part—session in two weeks’ time.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. thank you, mr president. the reform of european electoral law is one of the two cases in which this parliament has a right of initiative. we should therefore be very careful in dealing with this dossier, which is very important for the next european elections. i therefore agree with mrs hübner that we have another two weeks to reflect in the political groups and delegations on the proposal of the afco committee. i'm in favor of moving it up two weeks.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. there are many arguments against this oral proposal. it's not about whether cows emit methane or not. we can't turn it off, of course. but it's about us showing that we're serious about climate policy. and that is why we must also take methane emissions into account!
in writing. ‒ i welcome the draft general budget of the european union for 2016 in principle, as i see a serious desire to save. i cannot, however, accept the millions of euros planned for next year in the 'wave plan' for the renovation of the dilapidated parliament buildings in brussels and the extravagant construction of new buildings, which are ultimately 30 to 50 per cent more expensive than the average price of office buildings in brussels. parliament should sell the buildings in brussels and present a road map for the complete move to strasbourg, as proposed by me and the 'groupe kammerzell'.
in writing. ‒ i have approved the report on the general budget for 2016. the budget presented prioritizes the management of the refugee crisis and the integration of asylum seekers in europe. it is also welcome that other sectors in need of support, such as the dairy sector, are receiving increased support.
in writing. ‒ parliament has requested eur 157.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 146.5 billion in payment appropriations for the 2016 eu budget, representing a net increase of eur 4.159 billion and eur 4.34 billion respectively. the aim is to repeal almost all the council's cuts and ignore the ceilings agreed between eu member states in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy. nevertheless, these areas should remain unaffected, regardless of the achievements. this is countered by cuts in the very important areas of research (horizon 2020) and infrastructure (connecting europe facility cef). our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget based on an efficient, subsidiary and additionality budgetary policy at european level have not been taken into account in this draft budget. that is why i voted against the parliament's draft budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ parliament has requested eur 157.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 146.5 billion in payment appropriations for the 2016 eu budget, representing a net increase of eur 4.159 billion and eur 4.34 billion respectively. the aim is to repeal almost all the council's cuts and ignore the ceilings agreed between eu member states in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy. nevertheless, these areas should remain unaffected, regardless of the achievements. this is countered by cuts in the very important areas of research (horizon 2020) and infrastructure (connecting europe facility cef). our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget based on an efficient, subsidiary and additionality budgetary policy at european level have not been taken into account in this draft budget. that is why i voted against the parliament's draft budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the draft general budget of the european union for 2016 in principle, as i see a serious desire to save. i cannot, however, accept the millions of euros planned for next year in the 'wave plan' for the renovation of the dilapidated parliament buildings in brussels and the extravagant construction of new buildings, which are ultimately 30 to 50 per cent more expensive than the average price of office buildings in brussels. parliament should sell the buildings in brussels and present a road map for the complete move to strasbourg, as proposed by me and the 'groupe kammerzell'.
in writing. ‒ parliament has requested eur 157.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 146.5 billion in payment appropriations for the 2016 eu budget, representing a net increase of eur 4.159 billion and eur 4.34 billion respectively. the aim is to repeal almost all the council's cuts and to ignore the ceilings agreed between member states in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy. nevertheless, these areas should remain unaffected, regardless of the achievements. this is countered by cuts in the very important areas of research (horizon 2020) and infrastructure (connecting europe facility cef). our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget have not been taken into account in the present draft budget. that is why i voted against the parliament's draft budget for 2016. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ parliament has requested eur 157.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 146.5 billion in payment appropriations for the 2016 eu budget, representing a net increase of eur 4.159 billion and eur 4.34 billion respectively. the aim is to repeal almost all the council's cuts and ignore the ceilings agreed between eu member states in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy. nevertheless, these areas should remain unaffected, regardless of the achievements. this is countered by cuts in the very important areas of research (horizon 2020) and infrastructure (connecting europe facility cef). our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget based on an efficient, subsidiary and additionality budgetary policy at european level have not been taken into account in this draft budget. that is why i voted against the parliament's draft budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ parliament has requested eur 157.4 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 146.5 billion in payment appropriations for the 2016 eu budget, representing a net increase of eur 4.159 billion and eur 4.34 billion respectively. the aim is to repeal almost all the council's cuts and ignore the ceilings agreed between eu member states in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the structural and cohesion policy and agriculture/environment alone account for more than two thirds of the eu budget, although the implementation of programmes and activities is often poor, particularly in the area of cohesion policy. nevertheless, these areas should remain unaffected, regardless of the achievements. this is countered by cuts in the very important areas of research (horizon 2020) and infrastructure (connecting europe facility cef). our demands for a sustainable, balanced and transparent budget based on an efficient, subsidiary and additionality budgetary policy at european level have not been taken into account in this draft budget. that is why i voted against the parliament's draft budget for 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the proposal to reject the council proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending protocol no 3 on the statute of the court of justice of the european union, as i consider an increase in the number of judges to be a complete waste of taxpayers' money, which i do not support.
in writing. ‒ together with my group, the ecr, i voted against the report 'court of justice of the european union: number of judges in the court of justice'. the report is contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. the appointment of judges to the court of justice of the european union is a matter which should be dealt with by the member states. the report calls for the introduction of many measures, including the introduction of gender quotas, and i categorically reject that. i have therefore voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the adoption of the report 'rules for fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) convention area' as it provides an important basis for parts of the blue economy in this region.
in writing. ‒ the new rules on fisheries also ensure that our seas are managed carefully and sustainably for the future. this is the only way for future generations to live and benefit from the wealth of the seas. an important element in achieving this is the use of proper fishing nets. at the same time, the competitiveness of our local fishermen must be guaranteed.
in writing. i have given my consent to the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1343/2011 laying down the rules for fishing in the gfcm (general fisheries commission for the mediterranean) convention area. the proposal includes technical measures for the sustainable exploitation of red coral, the reduction of unintentional red coral catches, the unintentional capture of seabirds, sea turtles and whales and the conservation of monk seals, sharks and rays in the gfcm convention area. the report also sets out measures for small-scale fisheries in the adriatic sea. we accept that the member states concerned may grant the emergency derogations provided that this agreement does not serve as a model for any future action.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because i support the referral back to the commission. the question is not 'genetic engineering yes or no', but that the proposal does not offer a solution in line with the existing wto rules and our internal market rules. the commission is now being asked to identify ways of doing this which are viable and do not lead to border controls on agricultural products between member states which have decided to support or oppose the cultivation of genetically modified food.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the use of genetically modified food and feed, as i support the approach to reject the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ the use of genetically modified food is a field that affects people. however, national solutions would be contrary to the principles of a free internal market. it is essential that we find a common european solution for genetically modified food and feed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report by mr giovanni la via, which calls on the commission to withdraw its proposal on national bans on imports of gm feed from member states. the commission proposal would be the beginning of the end of our common internal market. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of border controls between member states to prevent genetically modified feed from entering a country which has imposed an import ban. there would be massive distortions of competition in eu agriculture and an unmanageable chaos. the possibility of import bans is also completely unrealistic because european agriculture is dependent on the import of protein feedingstuffs for its survival. only 5% of our soybean needs for animal feed production are produced in the eu. the rest come from countries such as the united states, canada, and brazil, where genetically modified crops are the dominant crop. in any event, animal products would be much more expensive for the consumer and meat production, which is also one of the eu's largest exports, would migrate to third countries. so the proposal is dangerous nonsense. the import of gm food and feed is strictly regulated in the eu. these rules guarantee the safe handling of gmos and should remain so.
in writing. ‒ unlike my group, the ecr, i voted against this report. i am fundamentally opposed to the use of genetically modified food or feed. this is not only a moral issue, but also another example of the violation of the eu's subsidiarity principle. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the current authorisation procedures for this type of novel food are too complicated, time-consuming and expensive. we need a single and simplified procedure in the internal market, where authorization is not just for a single foodstuff, but for the whole category of similar foodstuffs. however, i would also like to point out the important role of the european food safety authority (efsa), which has to ensure, through inspections, that a product does not have an impact on human health.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods, as i welcome clear legislation and improved consumer protection. i support the report, which has been very well drafted by my colleague from the group of the party of european socialists, mr jom nicholson.
in writing. ‒ i have advocated a revision of the current legislation on food assessment. in the context of a highly technological food industry, it is important that legislation is able to keep pace with current developments in food production and processing. at the same time, it must also be possible for companies to undergo authorisation procedures for novel foods in the most efficient way possible.
in writing. ‒ i support the compromise agreed with the council on the revision of the novel food regulation. the food sector is one of the largest and most innovative in the eu. to compete in the fierce competition, manufacturers are constantly developing new products, additives and manufacturing methods. we must take account of these developments. i welcome the fact that the new regulation finally regulates the use of nanoparticles in food. these tiny particles can increase the stability of products, change their appearance, taste or consistency, or improve the absorption of certain ingredients, such as vitamins. the centralisation of the authorisation procedure is also important. it makes applications easier, cheaper and speeds up the procedure. the fact that the authorization is no longer limited to individual foods but applies to the whole category of products also contributes to the reduction of red tape. the simplified authorisation procedure will also make it easier to export to the eu food that has only been consumed in other regions of the world, such as dried insects. this is also in line with the culinary globalization.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report on 'innovative foodstuffs' together with my group, the ecr. within the eu legal framework, novel foods are defined as those foods that were not consumed in the eu on a significant scale before 1997. the report defines an appropriate framework for the handling of novel foods.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the fact that we have succeeded in excluding methane from the directive on the basis of the amendments tabled jointly by myself and my polish colleagues. this would have had devastating consequences for our agriculture and is simply unworldly. i now expect the rapporteur to engage in a lively debate with the council and to defend the positions we have adopted in the trilogue.
in writing. ‒ as rapporteur for the epp group, i have advocated a balanced report with ambitious but realistic emission reduction targets. we have been able to win the vote on the main points with our proposals. our legislation must be based on expert impact assessments. we have always called for this and we have done so this time.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia. the new directive aims to introduce new emission reduction commitments for member states from 2020 to 2030, namely for pm 2.5 and methane. parliament is making the same mistake again and again, raising the targets agreed by the council from, say, 27% to 40%. the limit values for some pollutants have been raised again arbitrarily. we need to set limits on pollutants to provide incentives for emission reductions, but these should be realistic, proportionate, evidence-based and not disproportionately affect certain sectors. however, it will be difficult for some member states, especially those with large agricultural sectors. that's why we need flexibility. parliament's practices are endangering the legislative process. it should be guided by the decisions of the council, since these are negotiated by the member states. i therefore voted against this report because it has taken a very different form with numerous amendments. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia. the new directive aims to introduce new emission reduction commitments for member states from 2020 to 2030, namely for pm 2.5 and methane. parliament increases the targets agreed by the council from, for example, 27% to 40%. the limit values for some pollutants have been arbitrarily raised once again. we need to set limits on pollutants to provide incentives for emission reductions, but these should be realistic, proportionate, evidence-based and not disproportionately affect certain sectors. however, it will be difficult for some member states, especially those with large agricultural sectors. that's why we need flexibility. parliament's practices are endangering the legislative process. it should be guided by the decisions of the council, since these are negotiated by the member states. i therefore voted against this report because it has taken a very different form with numerous amendments.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia. the new directive aims to introduce new emission reduction commitments for member states from 2020 to 2030, namely for pm 2.5 and methane. the parliament wanted to increase the targets proposed by the council arbitrarily, which would have been a particularly heavy burden for german dairy farmers, especially in the case of methane, which would have led to mass slaughter. to do this, germany would have had to make much greater reductions than other countries. i therefore voted against this report because it has taken a very different form with numerous amendments. we need to set limits on pollutants to provide incentives for emission reductions, but these should be realistic, proportionate, evidence-based and not disproportionately affect certain sectors. over-riding requirements will be difficult and require flexibility, particularly for those member states with large agricultural sectors. parliament's practices are endangering the legislative process. it should be guided by the decisions of the council, since these are negotiated by the member states.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia. the new directive aims to introduce new emission reduction commitments for member states from 2020 to 2030, namely for pm 2.5 and methane. parliament is making the same mistake again and again, raising the targets agreed by the council from, say, 27% to 40%. we also had to note in this report that the greens and the socialists would rather have no agreement on emissions than to reach an agreement. the limit values for some pollutants have been raised again arbitrarily. we need to set limits on pollutants to provide incentives for emission reductions, but these should be realistic, proportionate, evidence-based and not disproportionately affect certain sectors. however, it will be difficult for some member states, especially those with large agricultural sectors. that's why we need flexibility. parliament's practices are endangering the legislative process. it should be guided by the decisions of the council, since these are negotiated by the member states. i therefore voted against this report because it has taken a very different form with numerous amendments.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for revised national emission ceilings (nec directive) is part of the european commission's clean air package and replaces current regulations on the annual capping of national emissions of air pollutants such as sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides or ammonia. the new directive aims to introduce new emission reduction commitments for member states from 2020 to 2030, namely for pm 2.5 and methane. parliament wanted to increase the targets proposed by the council arbitrarily. we need to set limits on pollutants to provide incentives for emission reductions, but these should be realistic, proportionate, evidence-based and not disproportionately affect certain sectors. over-riding requirements will be difficult and require flexibility, particularly for those member states with large agricultural sectors. parliament's practices are endangering the legislative process. it should be guided by the decisions of the council, since these are negotiated by the member states. i therefore voted against this report because it has taken a very different form with numerous amendments.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on the european citizens' initiative today because i believe that elements of direct citizen participation are very important in a modern, better europe. we must be bold in developing the european citizens' initiative and in the best possible way make it a genuine european popular demand.
in writing. ‒ the current barriers to successful european citizens' initiatives are still too high. the commission has also taken the view that the new rules should be applied to all the member states. the task of politics is to reduce these obstacles in a meaningful way. that is what we are aiming at with this report and that is why i have agreed to it.
in writing. ‒ since the launch of the european citizens' initiative in april 2012, only three of the 51 initiatives launched have reached the required number of signatures. however, none of them has led to legally binding measures. the project in its present form presents numerous obstacles for citizens. the report therefore proposes several steps to make the initiative more visible to citizens and to make the process more user-friendly. it also calls on the european commission to react more quickly. in order to increase the benefits of this initiative, it is important that this process is as transparent and user-friendly as possible. alfa has always supported direct democracy. citizens must have a say and a chance to influence eu legislation. that is why i voted in favour of this report. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ since the launch of the european citizens' initiative in april 2012, only three of the 51 initiatives launched have reached the required number of signatures. however, none of these initiatives has so far resulted in legally binding measures. the project in its present form presents numerous obstacles for citizens. the report therefore proposes several steps to make the initiative more visible to citizens and to make the process more user-friendly. it also calls on the european commission to react more quickly. to increase the benefits of this initiative, it is important that this process is as transparent and user-friendly as possible. alfa has always supported direct democracy. citizens must have a say and a chance to influence eu legislation. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ since the launch of the european citizens' initiative in april 2012, only three of the 51 initiatives launched have reached the required number of signatures. none of them resulted in legally binding measures because the number of administrative and legal obstacles was too great. the current report proposes several steps to make citizens aware of the initiative and to make the process more user-friendly. it also calls on the european commission to react more quickly. in order to increase the benefits of this initiative, it is important that this process is as transparent and user-friendly as possible. alfa has always supported direct democracy. citizens must have a say and a chance to influence eu legislation. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ since the launch of the european citizens' initiative in april 2012, only three of the 51 initiatives launched have reached the required number of signatures. however, none of these initiatives has led to legally binding measures. the project in its present form presents numerous obstacles for citizens. the report therefore proposes several steps to make the initiative more visible to citizens and to make the process more user-friendly. it also calls on the european commission to react more quickly. in order to increase the benefits of this initiative, it is important that this process is as transparent and user-friendly as possible. alfa has always supported direct democracy. citizens must have a say and a chance to influence eu legislation. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ since the launch of the european citizens' initiative in april 2012, only three of the 51 initiatives launched have reached the required number of signatures. none of them resulted in legally binding measures because the number of administrative and legal obstacles was too great. the current report proposes several steps to make citizens aware of the initiative and to make the process more user-friendly. it also calls on the european commission to react more quickly. in order to increase the benefits of this initiative, it is important that this process is as transparent and user-friendly as possible. alfa has always supported direct democracy. citizens must have a say and a chance to influence eu legislation. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the adriatic and ionian region, as i welcome the eu's approach to this and consider a strong, joint commitment to be important.
in writing. ‒ today i have been working to strengthen the adriatic-ionian region. this clear sign of european solidarity offers the opportunity to strengthen and develop this region in the long term.
in writing. ‒ unlike my group, i voted against the eu strategy for the adriatic and ionian region. this report goes beyond the competence of the european parliament. it is committed to the implementation of an overall framework for policy coordination and territorial cooperation. this is a clear breach of the principle of subsidiarity and the main reason why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy, as i have already been a shadow rapporteur on this subject in the social affairs committee. i would like to stress the importance of demographic factors. these must be taken into account in the strategy far more than in the past.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is a key component of the europe 2020 strategy. this is the only way to achieve the goals of more growth and employment. that is why i voted for aligning the existing cohesion policy with the eu's growth objectives. the focus will thus be more on practical work and less on the complexity of procedural rules.
in writing. ‒ unlike my group, the cor, i voted against the report on 'cohesion policy and the review of the europe 2020 strategy'. cohesion policy accounts for more than one third of the eu budget and is the eu's main investment instrument. i think that this is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, which is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the structural and investment funds and sound economic governance. macroeconomic conditionality can also be an effective way of successfully implementing and adjusting cohesion policy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you have just compared the external borders of the eu with the gdr border. are you aware that the gdr border was a border that locked people in, so that people could not leave, and that the eu's external borders do not prevent people from leaving, but from entering? do you see that this is something different, or is it the same for you?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the member states have not thought of smart borders to make journeys faster, to make travellers pass through faster or just to abolish the old stamp system. it's the fastest thing you can do with smart borders. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the police should have access to the fingerprints of third-country nationals. all non-eu citizens are to be entered into this database to see if the fingerprints of these individuals match any fingerprints from crime scenes. this is a fundamental breach of the law, because the european court of justice has just again established that the unwarranted mass storage of data is simply not feasible under european law. the police's access to the fingerprints is also discriminatory, because who's in there? it is a place where all those who are not eu citizens and who wish to enter can go. we, the citizens of the european union, would not be drawn into this for a good reason. the same must apply to all foreigners. the smart border system is also intended to be used - as the heads of state or government recently decided - to tackle the refugee crisis. but this is probably just a bad joke, because if smart borders are to come, then the member states will have to invest millions of euros in fingerprint scanners, facial recognition devices and a lot of other technology for the whole system to work at all. that certainly benefits the surveillance industry, but it certainly does not benefit the refugees. we heard from mr juncker only yesterday that the eu budget is running out of money for refugees. the eu has earmarked almost €800 million for smart borders in its medium-term financial planning until 2020. i think we could use that money much better -- indeed, for the refugees, for housing, for the current problems we have -- and not come up with expensive measures that don't fit any problem at all, because we still have an expensive discriminatory solution here that doesn't fit any problem in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. today we are talking about the eu's plan to introduce smart borders, where fingerprints and personal data are stored for law enforcement or intelligence agencies. but the problem is that smart borders only apply to legal immigrants. the main problem is the illegal immigrants. while we screen the legal ones and store their data, the eu's external borders are completely or almost completely unrestricted for the illegal ones. without a passport, without any control, without anything, you can enter our country. until we have a handle on the hundred thousand illegal border crossings, we should not be investing money and time in the full tracking of legal immigrants. what we need right now is not smart borders, but lots of simple, stupid borders, if you will. i think that's enough. stupid limits and ceilings.
the commission has already done so. the smart border concept is intended to support the organisation of legal entry and exit of the schengen system. but given the current developments and uncontrolled migration, we need to think about how we can use the smart border system to stop illegal migration. the commission acknowledges that the smart border system is not designed and is not suitable for tackling illegal migration and that this requires additional staff to monitor it. but there is certainly an approach to using this system. i believe that the central registration of people who have not yet properly documented their entry into the eu or who have exceeded their residence permit is important. we must ensure that travellers and migrants are entered in the system with their biometric data and that non-eu foreigners are informed that they must register in the system. we must impose sanctions on those who refuse to register. it is clear that the schengen system is not working because too many people are moving irregularly across the external borders.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. as the permanent rapporteur of the committee on budgets for the agencies, let me highlight some of the fundamental aspects. we would still have found it more sensible if the original proposal to merge europol and cepol had found a majority. cepol is a very small agency with just 27 posts in the 2015 budget establishment plan. agencies of this size have to spend a disproportionate share of their staff on the necessary administrative backbone, i.e. finance and human resources, it, logistics, communication and the like, so that the proportion of staff working in the operational area proper, i.e. on the tasks defined in the basic regulation, is not in a reasonable proportion to the total number of posts. larger units are thus more useful and cost-effective. in theory, this could also be achieved if agencies, especially those working in related subject areas, shared these administrative work units. it would be helpful, however, if these agencies were then located in the same place. unfortunately, this opportunity was also lost when the council decided to move cepol to budapest. i therefore welcome the fact that the committee responsible has taken up our proposal that the commission should present a cost-benefit analysis of the seat after two years at the latest. i also welcome the approach of pushing for greater cooperation between the various agencies in the field of home affairs and justice. i am convinced that further efficiency gains and thematic spillover effects can be achieved here. i do not want to limit this request to the agencies dealing with internal affairs and justice. i think we should also be working towards greater inter-agency cooperation in other policy areas. i would also ask the commission to consider the possibility of merging or streamlining the scope of its responsibilities whenever it is about to amend basic regulations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a little more honesty in the debate on the agencies would be good for all the institutions involved.
member of the commission.– mr president, today we deliver one important element of the european agenda on security. there is no doubt that training is key to our common law enforcement culture. today, we ensure that we give cepol the right means and the structure to perform its mission. we can all welcome the final outcome, as this would reinforce cepol’s ability to become the centre of excellence of training of law enforcement officials and officers of the european union. the commission maintains its misgivings on two important points of the text, as it emerged from the interinstitutional negotiations, and underlines the importance of maintaining the common approach as agreed trilaterally between the institutions. my thanks once again to the rapporteur ms kinga gál for her hard work on this fight.
president of the council. - madam president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to wish the chairman of the libe committee a speedy recovery, since i forgot to mention this in the previous question. the council shares parliament's concerns about secret surveillance programmes and their impact on the privacy and personal data of union citizens. this has been emphasized on several occasions by previous presidencies in the debates in plenary on this subject. states must take measures to protect their citizens from terrorism and other threats to their sovereignty, but these measures must also protect fundamental rights. international approaches to balancing data protection and security vary from country to country. at the level of the european union, the starting point is first of all respect for the charter of fundamental rights, including the right to protection of personal data of european citizens. in the united states, the appreciation of safety and security is linked to the experience of that country and is therefore different from that of europe. the commission has also received comments from the united kingdom, the united kingdom and the united kingdom on the application of the privacy shield principles to the processing of personal data by the european union institutions and bodies. given the increasing volume of data flows on both sides of the atlantic, it is clear that the balance between protection and security requires a constant debate between the union and the united states. for our part, the european parliament, the council and the commission, each acting within its own sphere of competence, must play its full part. the report you presented, mr moraes, in 2014 rightly pointed out that the growing use of mass surveillance was not preceded by any democratic public debate. to ensure proper data protection, constant vigilance is required. the european parliament had been vigilant, moreover, with regard to the safe harbor agreement. i shall not go back to the debate we had on this subject at the mini-plenary on 14 october in brussels, it is for the commission to give the appropriate follow-up to the court's judgment. let me mention two positive international developments in the field of surveillance. firstly, the text of the framework agreement on data protection was initialled in september. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data. the council is awaiting the commission's proposal for the conclusion of the framework agreement and the european parliament will be called upon to give its approval to this proposal. second, the judicial redress act, which has been introduced in congress. both developments contribute to protecting the fundamental right of union citizens to the protection of their data. now let us return to the question you asked, mr moraes, namely the measures taken following the resolution of 12 march 2014. i would like to recall the following. first, the protection of fundamental rights in the digital age is a matter that is constantly on the agenda of meetings between the european union and the united states, both at senior official and political level. these meetings helped to restore confidence in the processing of personal data and led the us authorities to present the judicial redress act to congress. secondly, i would also like to recall the meeting held in riga on 3 june 2015 between the union and us ministers of the interior and justice. the meeting resulted in the riga declaration, which sets out specific cooperation actions for the next five years to address these issues more effectively. these actions include data protection measures and a commitment by both parties to strengthen the implementation of the mutual legal assistance agreement they have concluded, so that law enforcement agencies can cooperate better in respect of data protection. finally, as regards data protection within the union, the council gave priority to intensifying negotiations with the european parliament on the data protection package. i am particularly pleased with the intensive work currently being done on both the general data protection regulation and the directive on data protection for law enforcement purposes. the council and parliament are both committed to adopting a strong data protection framework by the end of the year. on this basis, the council will continue to cooperate with parliament and the commission to strengthen privacy rights and develop europe's digital economy.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, the commission remains concerned about media reports on surveillance programmes of the member state intelligence services which appear to enable large—scale access to, and processing of, the data of europeans. at the same time, the area of national security falls within the competence of member states. however, these exception clauses for national security need to be interpreted strictly in the light of settled court of justice case law. in its ruling of 6 october 2015 in the schrems case, the european court of justice further clarified that any legislation permitting public authorities to have access on a generalised basis to the content of electronic communications must be regarded as compromising the essence of the fundamental right to the respect of private life as guaranteed by article 7 of the charter. likewise, legislation not providing for any possibility for an individual to pursue legal remedies in order to have access to personal data relating to him or to obtain the rectification or erasure of such data compromises the essence of the fundamental right to effective judicial protection, as guaranteed by article 47 of the charter. as regards the protection of fundamental rights within the scope of eu law, let me point out the following. as members know, two proposals for our data protection reform are at the last stage of interinstitutional negotiations. they will increase the standard of the protection of personal data within the european union. furthermore, on 8 september 2015, the commission initialised with the us the ‘umbrella agreement’. the agreement covers all personal data exchanged between the eu and the us for the purpose of prevention of and prosecution for criminal offences, including terrorism. the commission will propose signature and conclusion of the agreement only after the us judicial redress bill, granting judicial redress rights to eu citizens, has been adopted. the bill has just passed through the house and we hope for rapid progress in the senate as well. the umbrella agreement will guarantee a high level of protection of all personal data when transported between law enforcement authorities across the atlantic. it will, in particular guarantee, that all eu citizens will have non-discriminatory access to us courts under the privacy act. regarding parliament’s request for the development of the european strategy for greater it independence, the commission is working to address the main points of the strategy by establishing the contractual public—private partnership on cybersecurity. the goal of this initiative, to be launched in 2016, will be to stimulate the competitiveness and innovation capacities of the digital security and privacy industry in europe. research and innovation projects on privacy and cyber security have already been launched using horizon 2020 funding, and these activities will be pursued under the ppp. moreover, the negotiations of the network and information securities directive, which aims to increase member states’ capacity to react to cyber threats in a coordinated manner while imposing security requirements on critical infrastructure providers, should be completed by the end of this year. the commission further announced its intention to reform the eprivacy directive in the digital single market strategy as soon as the general data protection reform has been adopted, with a focus on ensuring a high level of protection for data subjects and a level playing field for all market players. this includes a high degree of confidentiality of communications in europe. the commission is also committed to increasing trust in cloud computing by launching a series of initiatives in 2016 covering certification, contracts, switching providers and a research open science cloud, as well as the support of the free flow of non-personal data. also in the digital single market strategy, the commission announced that it will undertake a comprehensive assessment of the role of intermediaries in tackling illegal content online. finally, the commission would like to underline that it has been for many years a major user of open source systems, for example its data centre. it would also like to refer to the strategy for internal use of open source software, which was updated in july 2015. security and confidentiality are systematically considered when defining the tendering specifications in the commission’s it contracts. all commission contracts contain a clause referring to the applicable data protection legislation. the legal framework for procurement does not, however, allow favouring particular business models or limiting the award of contracts to eu companies. a thorough review and assessment of the commission’s exposure in terms of it security has been launched with a view to establishing an it security reference framework to structure and prioritise a range of short-term actions and a longer term it security strategy. against a threat landscape that is becoming ever more challenging with increasingly sophisticated attacks, the commission’s chief information security officer collaborates closely with the cert-eu to prevent cyber threats, detect them at an early stage and work towards a quick resolution. cert-eu collaborates with the european union agency for network and information security on lessons learned to improve the protection of networks and with the european cybercrime centre in the context of threat assessment.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. thank you very much, madam president. in 2013, we started to look at the mass surveillance of our citizens because of the nsa events. it was right, and it was important. we have also committed ourselves to continue to monitor the issue - and that is also right. but what has now emerged in this motion for a resolution is, in my view, largely ideological demands that have nothing to do with mass surveillance. we should be more concerned with the balance between public safety and individual privacy. we are therefore, as the epp group, in favour of security standards for mobile and online communications, we are in favour of protecting the eu institutions and the relevant national and european actors, we are in favour of a trustworthy european cloud, we are also in favour of strengthening europol's cyber centre, we are in favour of encryption in this area, we are in favour of a balanced data protection, we are also in favour of the examination of the intelligence services. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but what does this have to do with ttip or the tftp programme? what good is it to ask our citizens to prosecute snowden if we don't even have the jurisdiction to do so? what is the use of a sunset clause for all legislation without adequate monitoring, when it would be enough to make an adjustment? this is completely disproportionate and totally irrelevant to the protection of our citizens. that is why i am saying that this is also negligent in terms of public security. we must adapt even more and better to change and put in place the right structures to ensure that europe's security is also safeguarded.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. not only is the nsa still spying, spying around, spying on millions of people -- it's not much better in the nation states. in june 2015, the bundestag passed a law amendment allowing the bnd to legally monitor the frankfurt internet hub. also in june 2015, france passed a law to massively expand the surveillance powers of the intelligence services. austria is proposing a new state security law, and the dutch government also wants to expand the powers of the secret services and no longer control them. the fact that we are the only parliament in the world - one might say - to have produced an inquiry report on mass surveillance by the nsa and a follow-up report, and to have urged an end to mass surveillance, is of no real interest to the commission, the council or any government in europe. and then, at that moment, you really ask yourself: what is the relationship between the citizen and the state? it is precisely on this relationship that a community can be judged to be democratic or dictatorial. how free is a citizen in a state if he can be watched from every angle? what about freedom of speech, communication and the press? the principle of the rule of law includes the freedom of citizens, which means that the state must be there for the people and not the other way around. what is left of a representative democracy if the will of a freely elected parliament like ours no longer counts? if it doesn't matter that hundreds of thousands of people are petitioning against mass surveillance? what if courts ruled on data retention and declared it null and void and demanded that the protection of personal data be a fundamental right to be enforced, here in europe and beyond? what is happening here is a disempowerment of the people of europe, and it is against this that we as democrats must really fight. my final sentence is: i thank edward snowden for what he did, and i also thank max schrems, by the way.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, it is now two years and four months ago since edward snowden revealed his knowledge about massive infringements by intelligence services of eu states and the united states. i think this is the moment, at least, where heads of states and the european commission should act and take their responsibilities. until now there have been only two reactions to the revelations by snowden, both of them taking seriously what he has said. the first is the us administration: obama has conducted an investigation and changed the surveillance measures, but with regard to its own citizens, not with regard to european citizens or anyone else in the world where its intelligence services are spying on us. that is the problem. the second reaction is not by any politician in the european union, not by any head of state, nor by any minister has there been taken action on behalf of the snowden revelations, but here it was the highest court which took the action three weeks ago with the judgment on safe harbour. there it clearly referred to the facts revealed by edward snowden. if the highest court of the european union says there is something which edward snowden rightfully said is an infringement to the fundamental rights charter to our treaties, should we not take that seriously? should not the commission start infringement procedures against those member states which obviously still cooperate with those intelligence services, or even have intelligence services doing the same unlawful activities? this is not any more in the area of national security, which in europe is obviously becoming the black hole of the rule of law. every single member state – and i looked at the count – says that the european union and the law does not apply to national security. but does that mean that fundamental rights and the rule of law do not apply? where is the activity by the council, and where is the activity with regard to common rules and standards for intelligence services in europe and for the protection of each individual’s fundamental right before the courts, effective judicial protection? that will be brought up by the strasbourg court if you do not act, at least in some years, because there are cases. relying on individuals to fix the rule of law, this is not the right way.
the commission has already done so. we literally decided in march 2014: the european parliament calls on the eu member states to ban the use of mass surveillance. that sounded great somehow. but that suggests mass surveillance of citizens, which the state is allowed to do in principle, if or because it is not explicitly prohibited. this is the opposite of a free state governed by the rule of law. in a free state governed by the rule of law, the state is prohibited from interfering with the rights of citizens unless it is expressly authorized to do so. so, in our own estimation, we do not seem to have a free rule of law anymore. but it is the core idea of the state of the western world. we've lost that idea. we're forgetting our values and our roots. they're in our christian western culture. we must find them or preserve them. that seems to be the order of the day.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the epp expressly welcomes the econ committee's opinion, because we believe it sets the right priorities. it calls for the consistent implementation of structural reforms, in particular comprehensive labour market reforms, to achieve flexibility while reconciling wages and competitiveness, better starting conditions for the real economy, fewer bureaucratic obstacles and, most importantly, stronger support for small and medium-sized enterprises. a look at the eurozone, as the commission is now planning separately in the european semester, can certainly be helpful. but it must be clear, and it must remain clear, where the responsibility for a sustainable budgetary policy, for a successful reform agenda and therefore for greater competitiveness and growth lies, namely with the individual member states. we know that member states have a 'defect' in their record of compliance with the country-specific recommendations. the commission must act here, mr dombrovskis, and it must act urgently. the european semester is about budgetary surveillance and that must remain the focus. the early warning system which we have with the european semester must also be used, and on a member state-by-member state basis, not on an aggregate basis. we therefore call for the application and enforcement of the existing rules, for large and small member states alike.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, first of all, the european semester is shaped among other things by its attachment to fulfilling the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and it is one of the major tools in order to make the union achieve these objectives. unfortunately, this round of the european semester’s recommendations basically do not show any serious measures to reduce poverty, and all the environment-related measures were totally taken out of the european semester. while in previous periods there were always strong structural reforms suggested by the commission in order to increase resource efficiency, to generate competitive new business in the green sector, this time everything is gone. i would like to ask you, commissioner, whether you are still attached to the 2020 objectives and to the role of the european semester in order to achieve these objectives, and i also would like to know why you took out all the environment-related measures, which have always been there in the past. secondly, i think the key problem here is that, even if you do not agree with all of these measures as they are proposed, it is clear that the euro in particular, but also europe as a whole, needs the european semester process. we all know that the level of accomplishment of the country-specific recommendations is appallingly low. mr president of the council, mr schmit, from my perspective you did not address the key question: what did you do in order to increase the number of recommendations, which the council – which is voting on these recommendations – is really implementing? where is your decisive action to make your fellow member states, including germany and many others, truly reforming in the sense of the european semester? we make a joke of the european semester. nobody takes it seriously any more if the council does not manage to implement. and to the commission: i feel your proposals on the semester lack a clear enforcement strategy. i cannot see a tough enforcement strategy, and that is really a shortcoming. i have one last point concerning your proposal, one which really needs its own debate, but the european fiscal board is an advisory body, which you could have had proposed under the ordinary legislative process. now you create what is almost a new institution without a proper legal base and without giving parliament and the co-legislator the right to co-decide on that. that is a lack of european democracy and a lack of commitment to european democracy from your side.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i believe that the debate on the european semester today is in fact largely determined by the fact that we received new proposals a few weeks ago on the basis of the report by the five presidents, which the european commission has also incorporated into its strategy. secondly, the european commission has today presented the single market strategy. i would like to anticipate this because i think it will not help us at all in this house if each of us thinks that he knows everything better and that the others are to blame for the problems. we will only get back to growth in the euro zone, in europe, if we try to take the necessary steps together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why i think it is important that we focus more on the idea that michel barnier brought to the last commission, the so-called single market governance strategy. because if we as european parliamentarians want to have a dialogue with the representatives of the national parliaments within the framework of the european semester, we will not manage to do so in a reasonable way if we only talk about macroeconomic issues, but the national parliamentarians - i fully agree with mrs rodrigues of the s&d group - will only participate if they are involved. the single market strategy is designed to do this. i believe that we can make progress on this together with the national parliamentarians. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr rübig points out the important question of what small and mediumsized enterprises can achieve in the european single market. if we have uniform rules, applied and implemented in the same way in all the member states of the european union, this is the best growth concept for small and mediumsized enterprises in europe - and indeed throughout europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is our common objective in the epp group to work actively to reduce unemployment, especially among young people - as my colleague david casa has pointed out - . that is why we must give special support to small and mediumsized enterprises, which can be engines of growth. the colleague is quite right.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today's question from the employment committee deals with the latest council recommendation on the integration of the longterm unemployed into the labour market - indeed the most difficult group. as a result of the economic crisis, the number of long-term unemployed has doubled since 2007. they represent half of all the unemployed: more than 12 million people, 5% of the unemployed in europe, not counting those who are not registered. this is where the shortcomings of data collection and sometimes the creative design of data come into play. official statistics underestimate the situation of longterm unemployment. more than 60% of the longterm unemployed have been out of work for at least two years in a row, and we have longterm unemployment rates in the member states with marked differences. the highest rates are in countries which have had austerity policies in the past, in the programme countries which have been overrun with austerity policies - i will mention this personally. the consequences are well known: longterm unemployment often leads to inequality, poverty and social exclusion, and it particularly affects disadvantaged groups. the downward spiral, the erosion of skills, discouragement and alienation, increased mental and physical problems, social exclusion and withdrawal are felt in societies everywhere. in addition, unemployment and poverty are increasingly being passed on to the next generation. we find that the enormous social and economic consequences, the waste of skills, higher social spending, the loss of social cohesion and growing poverty among the elderly are also linked to the consolidation of long-term unemployment. the questions to the council are relatively clear: how does the council intend to deal effectively with the multiple barriers facing many longterm unemployed? how does the council intend to create the conditions for permanent jobs for the longterm unemployed, especially in regions with high structural unemployment? are tax measures to promote employment recommended? how do you intend to make better use of skills and employment opportunities to facilitate the reintegration of the long-term unemployed? how should member states create quality jobs for the long-term unemployed and prevent them from ending up in precarious employment? the member states certainly differ considerably in their social, economic and budgetary conditions. at the same time, the longterm unemployed are a very heterogeneous group, that is clear. how does the council assess this for successful implementation in the member states? how can best practice be identified and shared to combat this situation? how does the council intend to improve the situation of those who have been unemployed for more than 18 months or who are not registered if it is to concentrate only on those who have been unemployed for 12 to 18 months? what specific measures does the council envisage to involve all relevant actors, including ngos and employment services, whether private or public, in the integration process? these are questions which are addressed to this recommendation. true, eu labour markets are showing some signs of improvement, but the unemployment rate among the longterm unemployed remains high. the highest growth is seen in precarious employment. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. continuing high long-term unemployment not only puts at risk the core europe 2020 targets, from which we are further away than ever: to reach 75% of 20-64 year olds in employment and to have at least 20 million fewer people in poverty and social exclusion by the end of the period. it also threatens people's confidence in a more social europe, it leads to a loss of confidence which hurts us, which casts doubt on the further development of this european union in the spirit of the people, in the sense of a better life, and that does not do europe any good.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i listened very carefully to your remarks, which were very much about austria. as a social democrat, you are certainly familiar with the danish example. perhaps you can also mention things that you find positive in the example of denmark, where a social democratic prime minister is currently in power.
in writing. the commission has finally recognized the signs of the times. instead of continuing to cut aid to deal with the crisis, concrete proposals are finally being made here. it is high time that this was done, because the problem of longterm unemployment in europe is more acute than ever. almost half of the 23 million unemployed in europe have been out of work for the last 12 months or more. the statistics show clearly that the longer unemployment lasts, the more difficult it is for people to return to work. the psychosocial risks of longterm unemployment must not be overlooked. unemployment is often a form of exclusion. for many, therefore, simply getting back into a job is not enough. this requires good preparation and support for re-entry into working life. a strong social dialogue is therefore all the more important. well-trained workers don't fall from the sky. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, honourable members of parliament, the europe 2020 strategy was launched in 2010 as an eu strategy to deliver smart, sustainable and inclusive growth for europe. it set out five ambitious targets for the eu to achieve by 2020 in the fields of employment, research and development, climate change and energy, education, and the fight against poverty and social exclusion. more than that, the europe 2020 strategy has guided the strategic choices of the commission’s work. the strategy announced the creation of the european semester, which has become a powerful instrument to provide guidance for the member states in their structural reforms and sustainable fiscal policies. the strategy also guides eu spending. it has set the direction when preparing the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, when programing european structural and investment funds and when launching new funding programmes at eu level. a clear example is the creation of the horizon 2020 programme, with substantial increases in research, development and innovation funding. however, europe 2020 has not always been successful in giving member states the tools to achieve their objectives. europe 2020 should not be a process imposed by the eu, but a method for common prosperity. therefore, full ownership at eu and national level is key to its implementation. this requires the commission to work more closely with member states. the european council needs to be fully involved and to share ownership of europe’s long-term growth strategy. the european parliament and the national parliaments are vital partners. engagement with, and ownership by, civil society and businesses is also important. the reflection on the europe 2020 strategy is ongoing and we are looking into making the best use of the existing strategy – improving its implementation and monitoring in the context of the european semester. at the same time we need to reflect on, and develop, a longer-term vision. therefore, we will present next year a new long-term strategy for jobs and growth, looking beyond the 2020 horizon. with this approach we are ensuring economic growth and social and environmental sustainability beyond the 2020 framework. in this work we are taking into account the europe 2020 review and the internal and external implementation of the united nations’ sustainable development goals.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, i was afraid you were going to interrupt the sitting again. but if it is just a matter of not adding any more speakers to the list, i have no problem with that at all. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy were broad, they were long-term, and yet we see time and again that they are somewhat neglected in the daily work of legislation in all areas. in part, the reason why the objectives have been difficult to achieve so far is that they have, of course, shown the necessary flexibility which is generally characteristic of such longer-term strategies. we must therefore focus on the objectives which are actually measurable for the success of the european union and which can be used in the european internal market. the 3% target for investment in r & d is an often underestimated element in increasing competitiveness and strengthening the social market economy in the european union, because we see that economies worldwide that invest heavily in r & d are doing much better than others. that is why, mr vice-president, mr valdis dombrovskis, if we are to really revive the europe 2020 strategy in the next few months, if we are to add another building block to it, with the proposals of our colleague marianne thyssen, we must put research and development at the centre of our efforts to increase competitiveness.
the commission has already done so. the eu has made considerable progress towards a banking union. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. let's get some light into the shadow banking system. a number of measures are necessary to ensure that competent authorities, such as esma in paris, eba in london or the ecb in frankfurt am main, can effectively assess potential risks. on this basis, investors will gain a better understanding. sfts may affect the stability of the financial system as a whole, for example by increasing undesirable leverage effects. my colleague danuta hübner of the epp group is right when she points out that the increased regulation decided in recent years must not lead to the outsourcing of banking-like activities to shadow banks. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. i welcome the agreement reached after the successful trilogue negotiations to reach a regulation on substance. and the commission, mr vice-president dombrovskis, has described the result as a major step forward in achieving transparency. i agree with that. the role of securities financing transactions is important for the economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why this debate on financing for smes again today? i would like to thank mr antonio tajani, who brought this subject up in the epp group's sme circle, and to the debate here today in the european parliament. more innovative instruments were mentioned: cosme, horizon, venture capital. here europe is really doing a lot for smes. yes, and we also have the capital markets union on our chest. but all that glitters is not gold. securitization facilities okay, ipo facilities are good. but all this is only really profitable after a certain turnover threshold, after 100 million. unfortunately, the companies are not very interested in these new instruments. the traditional credit financing is still important. but what is the ecb doing, what is the commission doing with the great majority of the rest of the smes that depend on this credit financing? the commission is proposing 150 new data sets for loans of eur 25 000 or more. anacredit is a nightmare for every medium-sized business, for every volksbank, for every savings bank. and also the review of credit collateral, the questioning of real estate as collateral and the distrust of sme loans - so what is happening now with the review of the basel 3 criteria - that is not progress. all of these things would really be a step backwards for sme finance. i would therefore ask that we proceed very carefully with these matters. commissioner, let us not sawing at the strongest branches on which we sit. this is the medium-sized enterprises, this is the credit financing, these are the small banks and savings banks.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank the juri committee and its chairman pavel svoboda for this initiative, which is jointly supported by the two committees - the tran committee and the juri committee. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. that is why we held a joint hearing of both committees on this subject in march of this year. the experts' opinions were clear: the arguments for the time change are being challenged by science, and the negative effects have been clearly demonstrated. so there's no scientific reason for daylight saving time. i therefore share the disappointment of my colleague, mr pavel svoboda, about the commission's press release, but also about the commission's refusal to take this matter seriously. the original argument was to save energy. as you can imagine, as a green i am naturally in favour of energy saving, which is also the aim of the commission. but what's coming out now? many studies don't see an effect, and in indiana -- this was mentioned before -- it turns out there's even a negative effect. instead of saving energy being a positive thing, we waste energy. and that's why we have to change that. we want to examine impartially whether the present system still makes sense. we have certain problems, particularly in the transport sector. people are tired after the transition because they're getting an hour less sleep. this is a major security risk. the timetables need special rules, the trains have to stop for an hour at night so that the timetables that are written down are also respected; this is crazy, but it is reality. the working hours of the employees have to be adjusted and many processes in transport and logistics are interrupted. in the united states, the cost has been calculated: 1.7 billion euros a year, and the effect is zero! do we have that kind of money? i can give you a thousand arguments for how we can better use the money in the interests of the citizens. the initiatives are available in almost every member state. i have received many letters, and so have our colleagues. the questions to the commission are therefore: why is the commission not taking a serious look at the scientific results, including those from the usa? when and how will it reexamine the effects of the time change? or do you have evidence of reducing energy consumption? what estimates of costs and benefits are available to the commission? what are the effects of progress in energy efficiency? does the press release reflect the commission's view? is this the way it intends to deal with the concerns of citizens and members of parliament? so once again, i would like to thank the juri committee and pavel svoboda. and to the commission: look at the facts without prejudice! we look forward to your answer. (applause from the centre)
member of the commission.– madam president, the commission is aware that at regular intervals citizens ask for the abolition of summer—time. citizens mainly point to health problems, but also question if the reasons that led member states to introduce summer—time have proven valid. be assured that the commission is taking the concerns of citizens seriously. the commission has examined different studies on the subject matter, but these studies present mixed results and no conclusive argument was to be gained from them regarding potential impacts on health, energy savings or other impacts, for instance on road safety or productivity levels. the commission does not have estimates of the economic benefits and costs of changing clocks or adjusting schedules. neither does it have estimates of the impact of energy efficiency of electric lamps and appliances under the current summer—time arrangements in member states. the commission believes that the reason that motivated the adoption of the directive on summer—time arrangements in 2001, which was to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market through harmonisation of timetables, is still valid. it therefore does not see a reason for revising this directive at this stage.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i appreciate your concern, madam commissioner, but the commission's response is actually quite insolent, quite insolent indeed. there are problems with people - not everyone - and if you want to take people's concerns seriously, it is not enough to say: it has always been nice. for more than ten years the commission has not given a serious and honest answer. studies have been presented, and some of the answers are quite farcical. it is appalling how these health problems are being dealt with. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. just not on the subject. and by the way, the key question, commissioner, i really want to pass it on to the whole commission. the central question is not whether there are enough reasons to take it back, but whether there is a single reason to annoy people with it twice a year. you have to explain why we change twice a year. we don't have to justify anything! i've never understood why we have to justify restoring normalcy. the normal state was, it is not changed twice a year with effort, with trouble. i don't care how much or how little. there's no reason to change. give me one reason, one proof why we move twice a year, and i'll be on your side. otherwise, i think, we can withdraw this directive. this commission is going to start with deregulation. we want fewer rules. what are you doing? what's the point of changing it twice a year if it doesn't make sense? if there was a point, they'd have an argument. by now, the number is clear: there's no argument for turning around. but there are problems. and in that sense, simsalabim, we're just restoring the normal state. the single market argument is really the stupidest of all, because none of us wants to see something different happen in time in every country. we all say: change for all, yes, the single market. of course, uniform regulations throughout europe. but, ladies and gentlemen, i ask you to take this matter seriously. when i started asking, everyone just looked at me and said, "you're crazy, you're dreaming". there are tens of thousands of people signing, tens of thousands of people complaining. please take this seriously. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, yes, what a debate! across all factional lines. when left is spoken, right is clapped and when right is spoken, left is clapped. that has never happened before! they all agree. it is a completely non-ideological issue: the citizens do not want to change from winter to summer time and vice versa. the commission stands up and says: we have no arguments. you'll have the floor in a minute. stand up and explain why the changeover is necessary. don't tell us and the citizens that we have to prove anything! provide evidence and justification for the changeover. but you make a really good case. what you've done so far has been a shameless act. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you mentioned the figures, commissioner, 13 million people are employed in tourism. i do not need to repeat what effect this has on the european economy. i agree with you when you say that we are the biggest tourist region in the world. but the other regions are catching up, of course, because they are also much cheaper and offer better services. it is therefore important and right that the european parliament should look at what we can do here in the future. i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs isabella de monte, for her excellent work. i would like to highlight just three points: for example, sustainability, digitisation - these are crucial issues for the future, also in the field of tourism. i would also like to make a further appeal that we must stop restricting visa policy to third countries if we want to invite more citizens or more tourists in the field of tourism. we must also look carefully at safety standards, because there is a need to catch up, particularly in the area of fire protection and carbon monoxide in various accommodation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you, colleague. of course we must do more in the european parliament and in the committee, so to speak. we shall see in the next few years whether the commission has done enough. the commission is not going to be able to do that, and i am not going to be able to do that, because i am not sure that the commission will be able to do that. i am glad that we have these proposals at all and that the commission is open to this debate. because in the previous period there was relatively little. we want to look at this and be good-natured with the commission.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to take this opportunity to ask mrs costa: if i have understood this correctly, you have spoken about cultural heritage and so on, there has been a very substantial cut by the european commission in the various funding categories, for example cosme. is that really the case? if so, i would like to know why the cuts are being made in this particular area.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. on behalf of the committee on transport, i should like to briefly introduce the oral question on satellite navigation systems for air traffic: numerous airline tragedies have exposed the weaknesses of the current system and highlighted the need for accurate and continuous aircraft tracking. we remember the tragic story of malaysian airlines flight 370 and also air france flight 447 and many others. only 30% of the world's airspace is covered by today's tracking systems. it's gonna make it harder to rescue and it's gonna make it harder to recover. so there is a need for action. and one of the most promising options is satellite tracking, which is automatic dependence surveillance broadcast. this technology will enable better control and management of air traffic, especially safety, but also greater efficiency and control and lower infrastructure costs. so, it's a win-win-win-win situation, you know? our committee is convinced that the rules must be reconsidered to save lives. the international civil aviation organization (icao) also shares our concern. the committee and icao are therefore both asking the international telecommunications union (itu) to allocate a corresponding spectrum at the world conference in geneva this november. we have clear questions from our committee: what is the commission's view of satellite-based positioning systems? and what does the commission think of the demand to allocate the necessary frequency bands to enable such systems at the world conference in november? we look forward to your reply, commissioner.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i am of course in favour of mr cramer's proposal. i would now like to devote my time to general and business aviation. i think that eventually we have to extend this system to small aircraft. for example, the french aviation authority has highlighted in its study that an average of 15 accidents occur every year. in 50% of cases, the victim is killed. i believe that there is already a potential for further serious accidents, which we must of course prevent and avoid. i therefore call for the introduction of this adsb system throughout the community. moreover, in 2008 the european parliament already called for an own-initiative report an agenda for sustainable future in general and business aviation. the commission has not yet come forward with any such proposal. i would therefore urge the european commission to take action in this area.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the conference of presidents decided this morning on the award of the sakharov prize for 2015. i am pleased to inform you that the conference of presidents intends to award this year's sakharov prize to the saudi blogger raif badawi. (applause from the centre and the right) ladies and gentlemen, i thank the house for supporting this decision. i would like to add today, because of the particular case of mr badawi, an extraordinarily courageous and, in my opinion, exemplary man, who has been subjected to one of the most cruel punishments in this country, which can only be described objectively as brutal torture. i hereby call upon the king of saudi arabia to immediately pardon mr. badawi and release him so that he can accept the prize. (applause from the centre and the right) the quality of relations between the member states of the european union and the institutions of the union, with our partner countries, also depends on our partners' respect for fundamental human rights. in mr badawi's case, fundamental human rights are not only being ignored, they are being trampled underfoot. i therefore ask the king to suspend the execution of the sentence today, to release mr badawi, to return him to his wife and to allow him to accept the prize at the december sitting here in this house.
ladies and gentlemen, the subject was discussed today in the conference of presidents. the commission has already made a number of proposals. (disturbance in the hall)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the right wing has shown us a brazen attitude. (applause from the centre) i'm not going to lie. we know you don't have a proper understanding of democracy. we all know that in this house. but first, i'll try to give you some guidance. in a democracy, the mandate we have received from the citizens is sacred sacred! (interruptions by mrs le pen and others) mrs le pen, democracy also means listening. in a democracy, the mandate is sacred, it has been handed down to us by our citizens. and this mandate is not transferable, it's not delegated to anyone else. in some european union countries, this transfer of mandates is a criminal offence and subject to judicial proceedings. this is, thank god, not the case in europe at the moment. we consider it a sacred duty to defend this mandate. you've brought a great scandal on your shoulders. we will support our president in taking all legal action against you. (applause from the centre)
ladies and gentlemen, this incident was the subject of discussion this morning at the conference of presidents. it is now being referred to the committee of this parliament, where it will be examined, namely the bureau of parliament. mrs corazza bildt can be sure that we will respect all the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure.
i welcome a delegation from the peshmerga military units of the kurdistan autonomous region of iraq, led by general jafar ali, to the podium. general ali is accompanied by katoon al kheder, the commander of the yazidi women's units. these soldiers fight against the islamic state every day. they deserve our recognition and solidarity. (applause from the centre and the right)
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the explanations of vote which follow will begin with those which could not be dealt with on tuesday. the explanations of vote on the items voted on yesterday and today follow. i must inform you that we have received a very large number of requests for oral explanations. the meeting will last until 1:30 p.m. further explanations of vote may then be submitted in writing.
thank you very much. i'll take that as a request to skip you on the next few reports that you're still on the list for. have a good trip home.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a scandal that eu budgetary resources should be used to subsidize the breeding and keeping of bulls for bullfighting. you have to know that every year about 30,000 of these animals are tortured to death in arenas. fortunately, the vote here in parliament prevented this from happening. but this fact really makes us think about eu policy in general and what is happening here in agriculture. we are seeing a gradual shift away from high-quality, even highly efficient, farming to things that are being commercialized on a large scale, which also support the large farms. is this what we want? we have to remember that when you have several thousand animals in a stable, you can't get through without antibiotics. that you have to use chemicals on these big farms. do we want to?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make two comments on the 2016 budget, which was overall a good one. the first is that i think we have not prepared ourselves sufficiently for the financial challenges that may arise from the asylum problem. i would have liked to have had a budget line or a safety line. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we were very responsible. our suggestions were hardly costly. the budgetary authority would say that they were in the wrong, and yet unfortunately all our suggestions have not been taken up by the committee on budgets. i regret that very much. but i'm drawing the conclusion that we need to have a better conversation next year. and as for the speaker on agricultural policy, i would like to say again that we may have a separate conversation. i think that is a very good point.
mr president, i voted against this motion, even though my political group supported it. i am convinced that the increase in pressure on this judicial institution does not justify the political decision to double the number of judges. i was in the czech republic as minister of justice, dealing with the burden of the courts, and when i counted the pressure and the increase on the european court of justice, i am convinced that the number that the number of judges should have been increased by was and is much less than doubled. i'm even convinced that we could have handled the whole thing by adding lawyers, paralegals, assistants to individual judges, and that in itself would have led to a higher efficiency of this judicial institution. doubling the number of judges is a waste of money and a political decision, not a factual or even a professional one. that's how the professional public sees it, too.
mr president, i voted against the european commission's proposal and i want to explain my position. the european commission proposed that individual countries could restrict genetically modified food and feed on their territory. i'm not a fan of genetically modified foods, and i think the public, professional and lay, should be a little wary of them. but i think this is a problem that needs to be addressed at european level. the european authorities should, where appropriate, tighten the authorisation regime for this type of food. the solution, in my view, is not to disrupt the internal market within the european union and allow some countries to allow genetically modified food and others not to allow it, in a situation where it is impossible to check where the food will be exported from the countries where it is allowed, because of the absence of internal borders. the solution is not to give powers to individual states, but to tighten and possibly revise the process at the european level.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission is not in a position to give us a clear answer to this question. this was the other way around. we have here a directive which nobody asked for, which nobody really needed and which was also not very practical. the ultimate aim was to preserve and make practical the single european market. it was therefore right that a large majority of parliament should reject this directive again. because we also have to make sure that whatever our views on genetic engineering and new technology, we do not create a patchwork of regions that can then decide for themselves how to deal with genetic engineering. if we are going to do something, if we want to do something, then the european level as a whole is what is needed here, as the european single market. we cannot make a decision on a case-by-case basis.
mr president, i think i have an opportunity now to comment on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on novel foods. i supported this motion for one simple reason. i am convinced that the new, modified authorisation regime for novel foods entering the european market at european level is something that strengthens the internal market of the european union. and i am here to support everything that leads to the completion and strengthening of the internal market of the european union. it is one of the values which i particularly respect and welcome in the european union. i supported this proposal, and i am convinced that it will simplify and speed up the process, but also, according to food manufacturers, make the authorisation system itself cheaper and that there will be uniform rules for the whole european market.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am glad that we have not yet taken a final vote, because then we will still have the opportunity to make corresponding improvements in the trilogue. what's this about? i don't think anyone would object to us trying to improve air quality. but when we make decisions like this, it's not just about improving statistics, it's about improving real life. that is, simply and poignantly, the goals we set for ourselves must be realistic. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that was the good part about yesterday. so we have taken great pains to remove the requirement to reduce methane emissions from agriculture from the proposal. i would like to put it back to the trilogue, that they are setting realistic, achievable targets. once again, it's about making the world better, not statistics.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we voted yesterday on new rules for the european citizens' initiative. these are some good innovations, but they go nowhere near enough. does not a european citizen who overcomes these huge obstacles to citizens' initiative have the right to have the eu commission or the eu parliament either look at it and take a new legislative initiative or explain why this is not possible under the treaties? but one of the principles of democracy is that all power comes from the people. and this is also important for the eu if we do not want to frustrate the citizens any further, if we want to have a living democracy.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the establishment of an eu agency for training and retraining in the field of law enforcement (cepol). i believe that this institutionalised exchange in the eu is important, but i would urge that the taxpayers' money allocated to this should be used with care and that double structures be avoided.
in writing. ‒ in the context of an ever-increasing demand profile, i have today called for an intensification of the training and further education of our police officers. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field. this is the only way to guarantee a functioning european criminal justice system.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the vote on this report. the report calls for increased knowledge of the national police systems and structures of the member states and of crossborder police cooperation in the european union. while this seems to be a useful instrument for international cooperation, it is in fact a springboard for the introduction of brussels-led prosecution, and this is a gross violation of the competence of the member states. member states are explicitly responsible for their law enforcement authorities. while there are some good points in the report, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the transparency of investment financing operations, as i expressly welcome more honesty and transparency in this area. the traditional principle of the 'honourable merchant' is my basis and guide, and we must give it a new european dimension.
in writing. ‒ it is important to draw the right lessons from the financial crisis of 2007-08. triggering factors such as excessive speculation and ineffective supervision have contributed to this crisis. i therefore voted in favour of greater transparency in the future in securities financing operations, in order to ensure better protection through early reaction.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the resolution continuing the european parliament resolution of 12 march 2014 on the electronic mass surveillance of union citizens, as i consider that the approach it takes is wrong. i also feel it is important to stress that the european parliament's negotiators in the trilogue negotiations on the general data protection regulation should ensure that the 'chapter solution' on data protection at work in article 82 adopted in the last legislature is maintained and does not fall victim to a mindless cow-trading.
in writing. ‒ i have spoken out against a possible backdoor cancellation of the ttip negotiations. the european union has long benefited from free trade. an agreement with the united states offers many opportunities, especially for our small and mediumsized enterprises. we should not close ourselves off to these possibilities.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution against mass surveillance of the population. it also calls for an end to the prosecution of former intelligence officer and whistleblower edward snowden. the first amendment was adopted by a majority of 70 votes, the second in favour of edward snowden by a majority of two votes, the votes of the two afd members. all the other members of our group voted against. the afd is the party of civil rights. it stands for the rule of law, in which there is no room for unwarranted mass surveillance. i am particularly pleased that the european parliament is also calling for snowden's rehabilitation. snowden has been instrumental in bringing the scale of mass surveillance to light. he opened our eyes. he deserves credit for that, no prosecution. that is why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report 'european semester for economic policy coordination: implementing the priorities for 2015' today, because in its latest version, following many requests from the greens and the left, it no longer reflects the importance of the european semester as an important instrument for financial and economic policy. this semester is not a social bouquet.
in writing. ‒ high debt and low direct investment are problems faced by many countries in the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the priorities set out in this report will help to ensure that the economies of these countries continue to grow, and above all that they grow sustainably.
in writing. ‒ the report gives an opinion on the annual budgetary policy recommendations made by the commission to the eu member states. it welcomed the commission's focus on structural reforms, investment, fiscal responsibility and improving labour market conditions. it also notes that the future of the european economic area is at risk from the eu's fundamental structural weaknesses and the structural disparities between regions. however, this important analysis is countered by demands which alfa cannot support in any way. the report calls for economic and fiscal union, minimum wages and an eu tax. that is why i rejected this report. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report provides an opinion on the european semester, more specifically on the annual budgetary policy recommendations made by the commission to the eu member states. it welcomed the commission's focus on structural reforms, investment, fiscal responsibility and improving labour market conditions. it also notes that the future of the european economic area is at risk from the eu's fundamental structural weaknesses and the structural differences between regions. however, this important analysis is countered by demands which alfa cannot support in any way. the report calls for an economic and fiscal union, minimum wages or a tax of the eu's own. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the report provides an opinion on the european semester, more specifically on the annual budgetary policy recommendations of the commission to the eu member states. it welcomed the commission's focus on structural reforms, investment, fiscal responsibility and improving labour market conditions. it also notes that the future of the european economic area is at risk from the eu's fundamental structural weaknesses and the structural disparities between regions. however, this important analysis is countered by demands which alfa cannot support in any way. the report calls for an economic and fiscal union, minimum wages or a tax of the eu's own. that is why i voted against the report, as did my colleagues in the party and in the group. in the end we achieved a great success, as the report was rejected by a majority of the votes in the plenary.
in writing. ‒ the report provides an opinion on the european semester, more specifically on the annual budgetary policy recommendations of the commission to the eu member states. it welcomed the commission's focus on structural reforms, investment, fiscal responsibility and improving labour market conditions. it also notes that the future of the european economic area is at risk from the eu's fundamental structural weaknesses and the structural disparities between regions. however, this important analysis is countered by demands which alfa cannot support in any way. the report calls for an economic and fiscal union, minimum wages or a tax for the eu. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ the report provides an opinion on the european semester, more specifically on the annual budgetary policy recommendations of the commission to the eu member states. it welcomed the commission's focus on structural reforms, investment, fiscal responsibility and improving labour market conditions. it also notes that the future of the european economic area is at risk from the eu's fundamental structural weaknesses and the structural disparities between regions. however, this important analysis is countered by demands which alfa cannot support in any way. the report calls for an economic and fiscal union, minimum wages or a tax of the eu's own. that is why i reject the report.
in writing. ‒ i do not agree with the council recommendation on the reintegration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market, as it ignores the needs of those affected and hides the real problems.
in writing. ‒ i have today spoken out against longterm unemployment. the longterm unemployed in particular are leading to greater inequalities in society and are also personally facing the challenges of social exclusion.
in writing. this resolution is another consequence of the failure of the euro-money union, which has caused major social problems and disruptions in several member states. however, because of historical, cultural and above all economic differences, labour and social policy is one of the national responsibilities of the member states. the afd sees these two principles as the unshakable foundation for the future development of the eu. these must not be sacrificed to a 'harmonisation' which is due to the euro rescue policy. in several eu countries in crisis, longterm unemployment is a particular problem. the solution is a national problem. the causes often lie in inadequate reforms of the national crusted labour markets and decision-making structures. the afd's monetary reorganisation would involve devaluing the currencies of the southern european countries and could make an important contribution to restoring their competitiveness, thus leading to new growth and new jobs, especially for young people and the longterm unemployed. in addition, employment in the crisis countries is being protected at the expense of the younger generation. the same applies to minimum wage schemes in the netherlands, which prevent entry of newcomers to the labour market. without appropriate reforms in these crisis countries, european aid will also be worthless. that is why i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ today i voted in favour of the excellent report by my group colleague jacqueline foster on the safe use of remotely piloted aircraft systems (rpas) in civil aviation. the report deals with a very important subject and a technology which is changing our lives more and more rapidly. it is now time to lay the legislative groundwork for this.
in writing. ‒ today's report calls for a proportionate legal framework for remote controlled flight systems. this will allow the fast-growing industry to continue to grow in the future, while ensuring that this happens within a well-defined regulatory framework.
in writing. this resolution deals with the cross-border certification of remotely piloted aerial systems such as model aircraft and drones. however, these are not small radio-controlled model aircraft made by hobbyists, but part of the european aviation industry. drones can be used for military and professional applications or for recreational purposes. however, these possibilities differ and should therefore be subject to different requirements within the same eu legal framework. that is understandable, and that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on 'new challenges and approaches to promote tourism in europe' as it sets out important priorities. i am particularly pleased that a large majority of the house is following my request and supporting the aim of making europe the 'world's most family, child and generational-friendly holiday destination'.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the european tourism industry remains competitive despite comparatively high prices. this is only possible if industry can adapt rapidly to changing conditions. this is where we can benefit from common european solutions. i have done that today by voting in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the rapporteur asks the commission for its opinion on the use of funds so far from support programmes such as the european structural funds and highlights the wide range of possibilities for promoting european tourism at eu level. apart from a few economically useful points, such as openness to the 'sharing economy', whose potential is recognised particularly in the tourism sector, the proposals are overwhelmingly critical. the commission is being urged to examine the possibility of creating a new budget line in the multiannual financial framework, which would be devoted exclusively to the promotion of tourism. the commission is also calling for more staff to be recruited in the relevant departments of the european commission. the report also calls for an analysis of the potential of a new eu tourism agency. the proclamation of a 'tourism for all' principle is also particularly critical, ensuring that the general public has access to and can afford the relevant services. the only possible option was to reject the report as a whole, given the many centralist tendencies that were mentioned. i am also of the opinion - and this is my ceterum censeo - that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the rapporteur asks the commission to give an opinion on the use of funds from support programmes such as the european structural funds to date and describes the wide range of ways in which, in her view, european tourism could be promoted at eu level. apart from a few economically useful points, such as the openness to the 'sharing economy', whose potential is recognised especially in the tourism sector, the proposals are overwhelmingly critical. the commission is being urged to explore the possibility of creating a new budget line in the multiannual financial framework, which would be reserved exclusively for the promotion of tourism. the commission is also calling for more staff to be recruited in the relevant departments of the european commission. the report also calls for an analysis of the potential of a new eu tourism agency. the proclamation of a 'tourism for all' principle is also particularly critical, ensuring that the general public has access to and can afford the relevant services. in this context, airlines are for example encouraged to provide more seats in economy class at the expense of higher-priced quotas. this call is a clear interference with the free formation of prices and the european economic order. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the rapporteur asks the commission for its opinion on the use of funds so far from support programmes such as the european structural funds and highlights the wide range of possibilities for promoting european tourism at eu level. apart from a few economically useful points, such as openness to the 'sharing economy', whose potential is recognised particularly in the tourism sector, the proposals are overwhelmingly critical. the commission is being urged to examine the possibility of creating a new budget line in the multiannual financial framework, which would be devoted exclusively to the promotion of tourism. the commission is also calling for more staff to be recruited in the relevant departments of the european commission. the report also calls for an analysis of the potential of a new eu tourism agency. the proclamation of a 'tourism for all' principle is also particularly critical, ensuring that the general public has access to and can afford the relevant services. in this context, airlines are for example encouraged to provide more seats in economy class at the expense of higher-priced quotas. this call is a clear interference with the free formation of prices and the european economic order. the only option left was to reject the report as a whole, given the centralist tendencies mentioned.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the rapporteur asks the commission for its opinion on the use of funds so far from support programmes such as the european structural funds and highlights the wide range of possibilities for promoting european tourism at eu level. apart from a few economically useful points, such as openness to the 'sharing economy', whose potential is recognised particularly in the tourism sector, the proposals are overwhelmingly critical. the commission is being urged to examine the possibility of creating a new budget line in the multiannual financial framework, which would be devoted exclusively to the promotion of tourism. the commission is also calling for more staff to be recruited in the relevant departments of the european commission. the report also calls for an analysis of the potential of a new eu tourism agency. the proclamation of a 'tourism for all' principle is also particularly critical, ensuring that the general public has access to and can afford the relevant services. in this context, airlines are for example encouraged to provide more seats in economy class at the expense of higher-priced quotas. this call is a clear interference with the free formation of prices and the european economic order. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. ‒ in this report, the rapporteur asks the commission for its opinion on the use of funds so far from support programmes such as the european structural funds and highlights the wide range of possibilities for promoting european tourism at eu level. apart from a few economically useful points, such as openness to the 'sharing economy', whose potential is recognised particularly in the tourism sector, the proposals are overwhelmingly critical. the commission is being urged to examine the possibility of creating a new budget line in the multiannual financial framework, which would be devoted exclusively to the promotion of tourism. the commission is also calling for more staff to be recruited in the relevant departments of the european commission. the report also calls for an analysis of the potential of a new eu tourism agency. the proclamation of a 'tourism for all' principle is also particularly critical, ensuring that the general public has access to and can afford the relevant services. in this context, airlines are for example encouraged to provide more seats in economy class at the expense of higher-priced quotas. this call is a clear interference with the free formation of prices and the european economic order. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report, together with my group, the ecr. while the promotion of tourism is certainly an important issue, it is not the competence of the european union. the decision on tourism measures should be taken directly by the regions and not by the european union. that is why i rejected this report.
in writing. ‒ past tragedies such as air france flight 447 and malaysia airlines flight 447 have shown that we need to make travel safer for our citizens. that's why i've come out today in support of a new system for global aircraft tracking.
in writing. the development of global aviation markets is progressing. this positive development requires technical support. the airspace is typically a policy area in which joint action coordinated by the member states is justified. this includes the development of a performance-based global air traffic tracking system that enables air traffic controllers to determine the position of commercial aircraft at any time, including in remote areas. satellite-based ads-b technology, which provides for data exchange between aircraft and satellite, may be a promising option for the development of a global air traffic management monitoring system in the light of the information available today. i admit that i don't have a mastery of every technical detail. but i trust the rapporteur for my group, jacqueline foster: before her mandate as an mep, she worked as a flight attendant for more than 20 years for british airways, and she is probably the person who knows the procedures and safety requirements during a flight best of all our meps. i voted in favour of the resolution.
i have to say, madam president, as the chairman of the spd group in the european parliament, i would like to say on behalf of ourselves and our group, the socialist group, and i believe i can say this on behalf of the whole house, that we mourn the death of helmut schmidt, former chancellor of the federal republic of germany, a great statesman, a great social democrat, a great european. i would ask the bureau to make an assessment of his personality at our next plenary session in strasbourg so that this can be prepared properly. i thank you for your understanding and i thank you for your support.
vice-president of the commission.– madam president, the commission will soon publish its autumn european semester package, and this package will start the 2016 european semester. i am very pleased to be here to outline the main points which are new and to discuss with you the key ideas that we are considering. to engage with the european parliament at a plenary debate even before the annual growth survey is presented is one of the initiatives to increase democratic accountability that the commission proposed in the communication of 21 october on ‘steps towards completing emu’. as you will recall, the european commission substantially streamlined the european semester last year. to enable a more genuine dialogue with the member states, the commission published its country reports in february, three months before the country-specific recommendations were finalised. the recommendations have become fewer and more focused, and these changes have met with a mostly positive response. the commission’s communication on ‘completing economic and monetary union’ proposed some further changes, in line with the five presidents’ report. the autumn package will therefore include recommendations for the euro area, and there will be increased focus on employment and social matters. this package has been prepared against a background of still moderate economic recovery. but the recovery is boosted by temporary factors and is subject to downside risk. unemployment is still high in many member states, with high numbers for long-term and youth unemployment. macroeconomic imbalances are adjusting, but we need to continue to reduce high public and private debt. divergence across countries is still large, and this shows in employment and poverty indicators. the 2015 annual growth survey, the first under the new commission, recommended pursuing an economic and social policy based on three main pillars: a boost to investment; a renewed commitment to structural reforms; and the pursuit of fiscal responsibility. since then, important steps have been taken both at eu and national level. member states continue to undergo fundamental and sometimes difficult structural reforms. the commission has submitted initiatives aimed at restoring growth, improving convergence and promoting social fairness. the investment plan for europe is operational. parliament and council adopted in record time the european fund for strategic investment. the commission has made ambitious proposals to strengthen economic governance. these cover the operation of the european semester; the macroeconomic imbalances procedure; banking union; and strengthening the social dimension, while reinforcing transparency and democratic legitimacy. moreover, the eu internal market is being strengthened through a new internal market strategy, and action plans for a digital single market and energy union. all these tools and instruments must now be fully deployed and deliver concrete results for our citizens. given the economic and social situation in europe, the three main priorities of the previous annual growth survey remain valid. of course they need to be updated to take account of the progress made, notably in the investment plan, as well as of the new challenges that have emerged, including the refugee crisis. concerted action on reforms both at the eu and national level is needed to rekindle investment, foster economies that are both competitive and fair, and to run responsible public finances, and we hope that this year’s annual growth survey and european semester will contribute to these objectives.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european people's party welcomes today's debate on the european semester. the european parliament would like to send a few messages to the commission before the new annual cycle of the semester starts next week. we welcome the fact that the commission's ideas for fine-tuning the european semester take account of the legal framework of the european treaties. we also welcome the fact that the commission has now clearly stated that it will apply and above all enforce the existing budgetary rules. but we will also be very careful to ensure that the commission keeps this promise in the 2016 semester. we want to emphasize the focus of the semester on the economic policy factors, because where the economic base and labour market policy are right, the employment and social indicators also develop positively. we also see the positive economic development in the programme countries such as portugal, which have made great efforts and whose economy has been steadily improving thanks to strict reforms under the christian-democratic government. we cannot fully agree with the commission's proposal to introduce a euro-zone approach. the european council in brussels in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's role in the world economy. and to boost competitiveness across europe, some countries need to do more than others at the moment. we therefore welcome the establishment of national competition councils. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the reform of the cap, which is to be presented to the council in the form of a report on the implementation of the reform of the cap. we therefore give the commission a mandate for this semester cycle: tackle the problems at their roots! stay true to yourself as the guardian of the treaties. and apply the budgetary rules as we have created them together! it's a good way to start the new semester process.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not this is not my phrase, but that of the french star economist thomas piketty: the european semester is a european disaster! it is hardly being implemented anyway, and that is a good thing, otherwise the situation in the eurozone would be even worse. since the crisis, government spending and wages have been cut, but unemployment has risen. the eurozone is mired in depression and public debt has exploded rather than declined. monetary policy is at its limit and screwed up. if this policy were a scientific experiment, then the dijsselbloens and schäubles would have to pack up and go home. the experiment failed. every year the commission talks about a recovery, only the people do not see it. with the problem in china, the hope of an export-led recovery is melting like ice cream in summer. the report by the five presidents is intended to continue this insane policy: competition committees are to intervene in the autonomy of the collective bargaining system, wages are to be reduced until all are world champions in exports. but every child understands that they cannot all be export world champions at the same time. the euro threatens to break up this policy. this policy is being voted down everywhere - in greece, in portugal - and that is a good thing. mr juncker said before the greek referendum that a 'no' to this crazy policy was incompatible with the euro. i would like to answer him with bertolt brecht: if the people do not agree with those who are in power, let them elect a new one.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! first of all, i'm looking forward to the work over the next few months. i have the honour of accompanying the annual growth report for the epp group for the coming year and all the measures resulting from it during the semester. we must keep three points in particular in mind: the first is to improve the financing environment. the autumn forecast of the ecfin directorate-general shows that economic growth will increase moderately. this means that further action is needed if we are to achieve further improvements in growth. we need to take action on the capital market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. secondly - and i would like to say this again, in contradiction to many of my colleagues in this house - structural reforms are necessary. we have to get rid of the idea that the state can provide everything that people expect without any contribution from the state, or that the state is no longer able to refinance itself in the capital markets. that is why the keyword of structural reforms and competitiveness is important. but on the other hand, we also have to be careful that we don't have a quality competition down the road. so when the question of the professions in germany, for example, is raised, i have no understanding of it either. and we need a credible and responsible fiscal policy to ensure that the rules of the stability and growth pact are respected. i hope that portugal is being looked at carefully here. i also hope that france will finally be given a clear view of the situation - france, which has been violating the stability and growth pact for many years and is unable to achieve the objectives it has set itself. this is where we need to do something. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank mr ferber. i understand that you believe that measures are needed to stimulate growth in the eurozone. i didn't know you were a member of a party that had such a centralistic, leadership-oriented philosophy. it used to be that you had growth in europe without any measures to support it. today, other regions are still growing without any government intervention. why do you promote this instead of simply focusing on the forces of free competition and the competitiveness of individual firms?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. 'measures' can also mean taking things back, unleashing market forces. i cannot agree with your interpretation of the concept of action. i would like to point out, however, that here in this house, in the european commission and, of course, in the various capitals, we have a fundamental question to settle between supply and demand policy. the two systems always clash here. it will be a particular pleasure for me to carry this out as part of the european semester. and i'm counting on the support of all the smart economists in the world, but only the smart ones.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i've heard you talk before. but i have to say, i keep hearing the same thing from you. i sometimes get the impression that you always pick up the same manuscript and read it to me, because i never get an answer to the question: why is it that the euro zone is not growing properly, why is it that we are still languishing in the sixth year after the crisis, while the united states of america is already on the rise again? it's not the exchange rate, because deer are low. it's not about oil, because it's cheap. it's not the interest rates, because they're low. it's not the raw materials, because they're cheap. the whole foreign policy issue doesn't count here. but what we find is that in the european union, in the eurozone, unemployment is very high in some countries and very low in others. what we find is that some debts are very high and some are very low. what we find is that some economic activity is good and some is very bad. mr dombrovskis, it is because some countries are competitive and others are less so, some are productive and others are less so. but all must operate in the same market, at the same prices and with the same currency. this can't be good! we must dissolve the euro - that is the only way to solve europe's economic problems!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the european semester has not only been the framework for european economic policy coordination in recent years, but has also been the means of enforcing a neoliberal economic policy. this policy has proved to be wrong: economic problems have not been solved, and social divisions have deepened. i think that is what mr dombrovskis said in principle when he announced that the annual economic report would state that, despite extremely favourable conditions, there was only moderate growth, high unemployment and that far too many people were living in poverty or were at risk of poverty. it is clear that the absolute priority given by austerity to fiscal consolidation is wrong. and one should have known - if one is not only ideologically driven in approaching economic policy - that austerity cannot overcome a crisis. and just for the german colleagues who sometimes express this point particularly strongly: germany too did not overcome the crisis by means of fiscal consolidation between 2008 and 2010, but we have launched a comprehensive economic recovery programme in germany, have supported the banks, have increased short-time working, and have financed this by a substantial increase in new debt. it is therefore clear that a change of course is needed in the european semester. the promotion of growth, of investment, including public investment, must be the focus. you could finance that for a change by fighting tax evasion and tax evasion. we need to combat precarious employment and we need to include the social impact of our policies in the reporting much more.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. you have mentioned many things that we share, mrs bulc: the european aviation industry, with 5.1 million employees, contributes some 365 billion euros a year to the eu's gross domestic product. in this respect, the significance is very great. we have problems with international competitiveness, however. today we are deciding what we as a parliament expect from the european commission in the air transport package. we know that european airlines face strong international, global competition, which - it must be said - is gaining a certain competitive edge through state aid in various ways, whether in the gulf states or in the asian region. however, we should not respond with a lockdown, but rather with a smart and proactive strategy to create a level playing field. we want cooperation based on fairness and transparency. we therefore specifically want to see a revision of regulation (ec) no 868/2004. we must also do our homework internally first, and then achieve various objectives internationally through the air transport agreements. in this context, i would also like to address the social aspects in the european union. you have mentioned it, commissioner: we need well-trained, motivated workers. but we also have a lot of precarious working conditions in this area - whether it's zero-hour contracts or pay to fly - and various other things that we need to improve. in this case, i would also suggest that we do our homework here first and then bring the others in internationally.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your input and your latest impressions of your visit to the gulf states. it is very important, because it has already been said: the air transport sector is a very important economic factor in europe, and of course it is very important to us because many jobs depend on it, also indirectly, that we maintain this sector well and strong. we have to make it possible to achieve more innovation, for example, with new energy and new materials. i had a vision once, three years ago, of what the aircraft of the future would look like, that it would fly on algae fuel, for example. we are not there yet, but we must see that we really make research in this area possible. we need planes that are quieter, we also need the ability for the frequent flyers to go through security checks more easily, a lot of things that we can achieve. we need global solutions for emissions trading - i am convinced of this - and we need a solution for competitiveness, of course. it has already been said that it is not only the gulf states but also other countries which make it difficult for european airlines to compete, and we must look at how we can create opportunities. it has already been said that we should take a closer look at regulation (ec) no 868/2004 and see whether it really does provide us with the means to deal with unfair conditions. i am absolutely in favour of this, but it is also important to consider that we do not have just the airlines, we also have jobs at airports and we also have jobs in the aircraft industry, in the aviation industry. i think that when the commission comes forward with the proposal, we must make sure that we have a reasonable, balanced proposal as a solution to how we want to improve europe's competitiveness in this area. this is of course also the case with air transport agreements, which was mentioned in our joint resolution. a few points i would like to address: the working conditions are also important, of course, we need attractive jobs and good training, we also need good safety facilities for passengers and crews to find satellite systems and aircraft whenever they really have a problem, better mental health care for pilots and also the possibility that new systems for communication between aircraft will also take into account the small machines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we want to work on this and we very much hope that we will succeed in the future.
the commission has already done so. the european aviation industry is under pressure: labour struggles, emissions trading, taxes, special levies, passenger rights, subsidised competition. the consequences are dramatic. european airlines have cut 20 000 jobs in recent years alone. that's why the airlines, that's why the industry needs a free-kick. she'll have to take care of that herself. innovation, outsourcing, mergers - these are painful adjustment processes. but europe too must improve the conditions. the commission, mrs bulc, must finally take competition law seriously and take action in the event of unfair competition. i would like to ask you, commissioner, not just for announcements, not just for communications, but for legislation. member states must finally agree to the efficiency and environmental improvements of a single european sky. church tower thinking is not appropriate in heaven, ladies and gentlemen! parliament must think even more carefully about whether we have something to offer to boost competitiveness in addition to unilateral taxes, duties and emissions trading. we're taking the first step today. the resolution contains many important and good points on the promotion of technology, fair competition and competitive airports. these are good, very good tasks for the commission. we look forward to your next steps.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i very much welcome the fact that we are again discussing a whole package of legislation, so that coherent legislation can be expected and no individual measures are proposed which risk being contradictory. this is a promising concept, which we have not seen since the fourth railway package. i therefore look forward to the future: after the aviation package, we can expect a road transport package and finally a maritime transport package. i'm not going to tell you. the air transport sector has a strong global component, so we should avoid european unilateralism and seek action at a global level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i believe that air transport matters should also be included in trade agreements such as ttip. global regulations play a crucial role in the competitiveness of the european aviation industry. i am glad that in our resolution we want to promote competitiveness in particular. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. however, the existing law on protection against unfair pricing practices in the air transport sector is hardly invoked. it is therefore desirable that the commission address this issue and present appropriate amendments within the framework of the aviation package. finally, a very urgent request to our member states: the eu can only be a serious negotiating partner at european level if we succeed in creating a single european air transport area within europe. thank you, thank you.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i was wondering how you're handling it. when madame le pen rigged the elections, there were votes that were either parallel or only one vote apart. if this vote was decisive, i wanted to know how you would handle the votes.
mr president, the third part does not make any sense. we do not want ‘gender equality... in 2024’; it was mixed in with the ‘zipped lists’, so that part falls. we want gender equality next time, not just in 2024, so we should vote against if that is put to the vote.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not net neutrality is the key to the digital market economy and openness to citizens. that is why my group insisted on asking the commission such a question, to ensure that this is a practice of zero-rating, as is offered by some companies, and that it is actually outside the scope of the directive. the answers we have now received - from both the council and the commission - show that the concerns of my group are quite justified. because this zero-rating practice is -- that sounds good -- zero-rate internet, free services. however, i argue that zero-rating is a pseudo-consumer-friendly business practice because it is a means of undermining net neutrality. we have to be very clear that we can't let this go. i cannot be satisfied with an answer that we will see in two years how things are going to go. because then the dice are rolling and we won't be able to catch up. we only need to look at what the internet.org project is doing and how it is precisely this net neutrality that it is questioning and infiltrating the possibility of pluralistic access to services on the internet, preventing, leading to the fact that it is no longer there. and i find that very worrying. i think it is all the more worrying that both the council and the commission are obviously still unwilling to see this and are not prepared to deal with these questions very quickly. this zero-rating also has a direct impact on the competitiveness of innovative young tech providers and app developers, and restricts access to a pluralistic internet. ladies and gentlemen, it is time we addressed this issue, because the dangers in this area are enormous and we cannot allow the internet to be used for the benefit of the big monopolies and the opportunities for start-ups to be simply destroyed. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. it would be great if it were free and free of charge, as far as these services are concerned. the payment is in a different currency from the one we normally have with the euro. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data is not used for other purposes. and that's the other part of the danger that's inherent in this area, and that's where we have to think very carefully: do we really want data to become the new currency of the internet? i'm saying no to that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not if we want net neutrality, we simply and forcefully have to ban zero-rating. just like it was done in chile in 2014. otherwise, there is no really permanent and clear way to prevent customers from being lured to the sites of a particular provider with free offers, so to speak, to surf for free. and if you want more, more information outside the platform, to compare opinions, for example, you have to pay. there's the pay scale, it's there. google, facebook -- the big guys -- can dominate content, can control content if you want to. we don't want that. our concern is that this is creating a kind of parallel internet. this is certainly not wanted, but the fact that the risk is high is certainly a fact, and the non-discriminatory access to the internet, the equal transport of all data and thus the net neutrality is gone. the consequence is the loss of freedom of communication and information, freedom of expression and of the press, which is a fundamental human right. instead of zero-rating, we need strict adherence to net neutrality. that is why our decision on 27 october was not a good one. we need european regulations that are strictly enforced in order to preserve and also save net neutrality. i want to make it clear, there is no other way.
member of the commission. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. our rule, which you have decided by a large majority, will come into force on 30 april. it will give our citizens and users far more rights equally across all member states than before. it is clearly a major improvement in the position of consumers with regard to freedom from discrimination. that is why parliament voted by a majority. secondly, i have the impression that the texts were a bit mixed: some were in favour, some were very critical. but it's not the digital apocalypse. i would like to ask you again: the commission makes proposals, parliament and the council decide. now, to return black peter to me two weeks after your decision by a large majority, i call a transparent game. i'll still do what you want. but you could have said no. it was not my decision, it was yours in parliament. i am sorry, but democracy means majority, nothing else, and unfortunately unanimity is a nonsense in the european council! we have a majority here, that's an advantage. parliament has always wanted majority decisions, full co-determination and majority decisions. you did, now you have to accept this too! that's a strict civic duty for democrats who are subject. then to speak of "perverse" is to offend me. "pervert" is a term i completely reject in matters of fact and in technical matters. this is below every european belt line! then to bring up greece and link it to zero-rating is also wrong. these are words unworthy of a member of parliament. then colleague reda she is not present, but she is tweeting cheerfully, probably she has a pirate-destruction session, that's why she can't be there, wants to save her seat , who is constantly tweeting against it. she has a say here, she has a vote here. i'm not ! if it interferes with my work here, with my attention to you, i don't call it okay. only her youth protects her from my sharper evaluations of her person. we want the open internet. we also want to avoid monopolies, neither from silicon valley nor from the big european telecommunications companies. this is why it was the commission that initiated the platform consultation. i notice in san jose, in san francisco and in washington d.c., there is a lot of interest and nervousness. we will make a proposal to you in the course of the next summer as to whether and to what extent european rules for new players in this market are necessary for fair competition, for competition and for a level playing field. then please support me! the telecommunications companies - let us take the big ones: vodafone, orange, telefónica and deutsche telekom. i think it's also about consumers. and we have achieved a lot for consumers since liberalization and privatization. you can buy far more services in mobile communications and on the internet for 100 euros today than 20 years ago - far more! we have done our duty to the consumer. but i also do industrial policy. i am with works councils, with trade unions like ver.di, i am with workers, and i want the telecommunications and internet markets to be shaped by efficient european telecoms and not just by americans and asians. i want to. if you want something different, you can tell me, but also the works council of deutsche telekom, vodafone, orange and telefónica. i agree with the italian colleague on a number of points. my main concern, if i were you, would be that the very weak telecom italia is taken over these days. italy has hardly any independent companies left. fiat is gone, others are gone, alitalia is practically broken. i am sure that you will agree with me that in some sectors italy should also have independent players with revenues, profits and prospects in the european market and not be taken over by two french investors. then, arrivederci, italy, and you can go. i'm putting a lot of trust in the regulators. i'm sure the regulators will do their job. if not, we'll talk to them. the commission has already made a proposal on the powers of the commission which you are requesting. i'll read you the original english text as soon as my services are digital. but first, one more point. we have promised to monitor the market, developments and react if necessary. why don't you trust me? that's my word! i have a few years left on my term, and i'll keep my word! i have never lied to parliament and i am constantly in dialogue with rapporteurs and others so that if there is abuse - if it is revealed - we can respond through regulators or through legislation. that's between you and us. the regulatory authorities, by the way - i have looked at some of the speeches on their national origin - i would ask the members to ensure a little more independence and a little more staff and a little more authority and competence and quality for some national regulators who are extremely weak. i'm happy to tell you who it is in private. you're a citizen there, you have weight there, i'm just limited. i would like to ask you to support me in the 10 or 12 countries where i am not satisfied with the regulation in any form. the commission has proposed the following: text proposed by the commission. the commission may adopt implementing acts defining uniform conditions for the implementation of the obligations of national competent authorities under this article. those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in article 33. the amendment from parliament - i respect that, i am a democrat, i do not have the right to vote, you are an adult yourself - reads as follows and was adopted as follows: within six months of the adoption of this regulation, berec shall, after consulting stakeholders and in close cooperation with the commission, lay down general guidelines defining uniform conditions for the implementation of the obligations of national competent authorities under this article, including with respect to the application of traffic management measures and for monitoring of compliance. that means that the commission went in with long pants and came out with short pants. they cut off my pants. i can handle shorts. i have enough voice. i can handle that competence, too. but to take away my powers because parliament is reluctant to accept implementing legislation and then ask me to be more strict is only partially fair in my view. thank you very much.
president of the council. mr president, i have little to add to the commission's explanations and comments. i think we all share a major concern, which is to finally develop the digital single market in europe, because we have fallen behind in a colossal way. the strength of the european economy lies in this area, since it is the digital economy that will dominate the economies of tomorrow and today. and our objective today is indeed to develop this internal market. so, of course, an important step has been taken thanks to you, thanks to the european parliament, thanks to the vote of parliament in october. it is also clear that this single market needs what the commissioner has called a level playing field and we must, of course, ensure that positions which tend to become monopolies do not develop and that there is free access, open access to the internet. i think that's the other big principle that's been adopted. of course, we must be able to ask ourselves the questions that either side has asked itself precisely about the level playing field and precisely about possible risks. but there is also the question of how we are going to finally configure the offers of each other among the operators. i hear that's a problem, too. so i think - as the commissioner has just said - that there are some safeguards that have been put in place, first of all the important role of regulators to prevent, avoid and correct all kinds of abuses and in particular one of the abuses mentioned by either of them, that is to say discriminatory practices that would in some way call into question the very idea of an open internet.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i need not remind you again of the seriousness of the crisis we are still facing. it is quite normal that this crisis, its difficulties, its problems and also its solutions should be the subject of debate in parliament. this crisis is not over and may not be over anytime soon, especially as winter approaches and the situation for tens, if not hundreds of thousands of refugees worsens. europe, the european union and the member states have not remained inactive in the face of this most complex situation, because there is no quick and easy solution to this problem. a number of proposals have been made. they are being implemented - perhaps too slowly, i grant you. but further efforts at all levels are still absolutely essential. at their meeting on 23 september, the heads of state or government made a number of commitments to tackle what is already a major challenge for europe. first, we must support refugees who need help and are close to their home countries. the housing conditions in these camps are often poor, sometimes even catastrophic. there is often no schooling for the children who are the first and main victims of this crisis and conflict. food security in these camps can be extremely precarious. the result, you know, is of course the departure for europe of these refugees who ultimately have no other choice. it is therefore important that we now honour our commitments and implement them. increased contributions to various humanitarian organizations and financial instruments are among those commitments, including the two new trust funds we can talk about today. the heads of state or government committed to increasing eu support to international organisations and ngos supporting syrian refugees by €1 billion. these include the world food programme, the united nations high commissioner for refugees, and other agencies. half of this amount must come from the union budget and the other half from bilateral contributions from the member states. the first commitment was made in october. the member states have given us important additional commitments. the union will exceed the €1 billion target, and bilateral discussions with the beneficiary bodies are already under way to translate these commitments into concrete projects, just as the commission is doing - i think the commissioner will tell us. the new trust funds are important tools for pooling financial resources from many sources, both from the union budget, from the member states and from third countries, and from various budget lines, including humanitarian and development aid. the syrian crisis response fund follows the same logic as the contributions to the humanitarian organizations i have just mentioned. the emphasis must be placed, particularly in this context, on resilience and stabilisation of the situation which, as i have indicated, is extremely precarious. at this stage, the state of the contributions to this fund - it must be admitted - is still not satisfactory. we now need to increase our collective contribution, given the chronic underfunding of funded resilience projects at only 20%, according to the un, and this is in addition to the €500 million contribution from member states via the union budget. let me also remind you that the european union has already committed more than 4.2 billion euros for humanitarian action since the beginning of the syrian crisis. the luxembourg prime minister joined the president of the european council and the president of the commission in reminding all member states of their collective responsibility in this respect. in africa, it is our responsibility to create sustainable conditions so that people can seek a better life elsewhere and find prospects for the future in their home countries. their families need them; their talents, their energy are needed. the money they have to pay to smugglers, to criminals for their passage to europe would indeed be better invested in the economies of their home countries. but let's face it, that's not going to happen overnight! we need a new approach to development, focused on job creation, decent jobs in african countries, investments we will make or support in those countries, training for young people, which is often insufficient, and the development of traditional sectors which sometimes suffer from competition, even european competition, in agriculture and fisheries, and we therefore have an absolute obligation to support what we have already committed ourselves to support, namely sustainable development. the european union is currently holding a summit in valletta, malta, with its african partners, where important decisions are being taken on a range of migration-related issues. and as i said, whoever talks about migration, whoever talks about migration, cannot ignore the development challenges. one of the measures in this package is the european union emergency trust fund for stability and addressing the root causes of irregular migration and displaced persons in africa. of course there are political issues, issues of human rights violations, issues of oppression that are very concrete - and besides, when we look at the countries from which illegal migrants come, they often come from countries where human rights guarantees are actually completely absent, or quite the opposite. the european union's contribution to the fund will be divided into two parts. the first is from the european development fund (edf) and the union budget. that is why it was possible to specify it from the outset. it is clear that our commitment to sustainable development in africa must cover the medium and long term, because the problem we have to solve is not a short term problem, it is a problem that can only be solved in the longer term. the commission announced funds of €1.8 billion by 2020. in addition to their substantial contribution through the fund, i.e. the edf, which is an intergovernmental fund, some 20 member states have so far announced an additional national contribution of 1.8 billion. switzerland and norway also intend to contribute. at the same time, of course, the bilateral development aid programmes of the member states continue to be implemented. the trust fund is part of the answer, but it cannot replace the usual programming of our financial assistance, especially if we are aiming for a sustainable impact - which i believe is our common goal. the valletta summit, which is taking place right now, will be an opportunity to make further commitments with our partners. i therefore ask for your understanding if i am not able to give you more precise and definitive figures today on the bilateral contributions of the member states to the emergency fund. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. my own country, luxembourg - just to let you know - will contribute €3.1 million to the trust fund. we have a development aid contribution of 1.03 per cent of gdp. i would remind you that we all have made commitments in this respect. we have already made a commitment some time ago to 0.7%. it is true that not everyone reaches this 0.7%, and the situation is such that some countries have reduced their development aid. i am not criticizing, and it is not my place to criticize, but i know that even in my own country there are voices calling for us to actually save a little on development aid because, in the end, it does no harm to anyone. we must know that, even in the context of budgetary discipline, in the context of budgetary constraints, making these savings represents a cost that could be called a 'deferred cost', because we see today that migration and underdevelopment are two sides of the same coin and that, if we do not tackle the issues of underdevelopment, poverty and exclusion of young people in developing countries, the solution for them will ultimately be migration at the cost and risk of their lives. we have often discussed - and i believe the president of the commission has also said this - that barbed wire and walls will not prevent them from coming! what is at stake today is, of course, an investment in solidarity with our neighbours in africa, but it is also an investment in our own security. i think that is the challenge and that is what we must achieve today and thus send an important signal at this meeting in valletta.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, our world has become so wealthy that on an annual basis, we produce the incredible amount of over eur 67 trillion. in this world of ours, unfortunately, the number of people that depend on aid to survive has been growing exponentially. today, we have 120 million people needing help for their very survival. if they were a country, this would be the 11th largest country in the world, between japan and turkey. half of the population of this country are homeless. they are displaced by conflicts or by natural disasters. of those displaced, the largest share live in our neighbourhood. they live in africa, north africa and the middle east. it is very clear that we in europe are being tested not only to help the one million that have made it to our shores, but also to help the 59 million. that task is morally right, but it is also in our own self-interest. if we want to have a more manageable situation in which we can be good citizens and help people, we absolutely must increase our attention and support for people where they are – in lebanon, jordan and turkey, as well as in the countries of the horn of africa and the sahel. that is why we in the commission have decided that, in addition to our normal development and humanitarian work, we are going to make use of the new trust fund instrument, because this has the capacity to pool large sums which otherwise may be dispersed in small and not sufficiently effective programmes. it allows us to make quick decisions and finance activities, and it gives us the flexibility to adjust to changing demands. it gives us a chance to bring in more donors and, by doing so, to reduce the administrative costs and increase the effectiveness and impact. we have taken decisions recently to create two trust funds. as we have heard, one of them is on the table of the valletta summit – the emergency trust fund for africa. i will start with that. it has already been discussed by high representative/vice-president mogherini and commissioner mimica with the committee on foreign affairs (afet) and the committee on development (deve) in september. on 9 september, president juncker framed the proposal for the creation of this trust fund with the objective of helping people, addressing the root causes of instability and irregular migration, and helping displaced populations in africa. i am very pleased to say that, between 9 september and 20 october, work had advanced to a point where we in the commission were able to adopt the relevant decision with the draft constitutive agreement to get the trust fund up and running. it focuses on providing economic opportunities, supporting the resilience of communities, building more security and development opportunities and providing better migration management in the sahel, lake chad, horn of africa and north africa. it is very important to stress that the trust fund helps us to tackle the root causes of migration and to help people with immediate priority needs. it is flexible, it allows immediate and concrete actions, and it is also a very good framework for more eu visibility for doing what our people fund us to do. the specific targeted actions include creating employment, especially for young people and for women; building links between development and security; and supporting very concrete actions in terms of migration and refugee management. we are looking forward to the outcomes of the valletta summit. we hope to see additional resources. today, as we have heard from mr schmit, we have eur 1.8 billion in the trust fund, plus an additional eur 70 million committed already by member states, and i hope that we will see additional commitments at the valletta summit. i want also to flag up that in this trust fund we are proposing to allocate eur 200 million to a specific window for morocco, algeria, tunisia, libya and egypt. i do not need to explain why these countries are such an important target area for that kind of assistance. the second trust fund we have created is the regional trust fund in response to the syrian crisis. it was established in december 2014 with the objective of providing a more coherent and comprehensive aid response to the syrian crisis on a regional scale, primarily focusing on the needs of syrians in neighbouring countries. but we are also able to use this fund to help syrians in syria, and to help syrians that have already taken the route to europe and are in some of the countries neighbouring the eu on the western route. this fund has actually got a very appropriate name. the name is the madad fund. madad means hope, and it is about sending a signal to the syrian refugees that the world has not forgotten them, that there is hope. many of them are on their way to europe because they lost hope for themselves and for their children. one of the objectives of the fund is in fact to support education for syrian children. this has been one of the biggest tragedies of this five-year war. syria is a country that used to be very high in educational achievement, with a 97-98% literacy rate. it was a country where you would ask children what they wanted to be they would say a doctor, an engineer or a teacher. almost two-thirds of these children are either out of school or are attending school irregularly. having a chance to help them to get the education they deserve is also a way to help their families to stay and not to be on the move. to date, we have received pledges from nine member states to contribute to the fund. this is an additional eur 2 million, and we certainly hope that there will be pledges from member states but maybe also from third countries. i want to thank the member states that have already contributed, but also those that have contributed directly to unicef, unhcr and the world food programme. it is a critical moment for us, as europeans, to stand up and be counted and to convey to the world the confidence that europe is a force for good.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i have heard your incantations. but i must confess that i am disappointed. i agree with you, mr minister, on one point: those who think that fences and barbed wire will solve the problems are mistaken, they are only hindering their own view. but you obviously cannot say today who wants to contribute to these two funds, when and how much. so that we don't misunderstand each other we all worked together in a concerted effort a month ago in a fast-track process to ensure that in 2015 and 2016 €9.2 billion was provided from the european budget through massive re-allocation and re-prioritization. but if you listen to what the united nations high commissioner for refugees, mr. guterres, has said -- 5,000 every other day until the end of february, more than half a million people -- small signs are not enough if we want to help keep them in camps close to their home countries. and what has been done now with regard to the world food programme, and what has been done in october with regard to the unhcr, is very modest and cautious, but at least something is moving. but that's not exactly winter-proof. that is why i say that the question of the distribution mechanism should not have been raised in the context of article 78 (3) but in the context of article 79 (3), a common system for the temporary protection of displaced persons in the event of a mass influx. they didn't dare. many member states share responsibility for this. that is why i am asking you to make sure that this fund solution works. otherwise, we'll have to question them again. and please, commissioner, report to the committee on budgets at each meeting who, when and how much, otherwise we lose credibility and the humanism and solidarity of the european union goes bankrupt.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we all know that the member states of the european union have a responsibility to face up to the current crisis. this includes our support for this proposal, because it is syria and the african continent as a whole that need our help right now. therefore, €2.3 billion is a reasonable amount certainly not sufficient but still. this is not only a matter of budgetary policy, but also of how to use money efficiently. we have always been of the opinion that we must use our resources as closely as possible to the crisis centres, because we are much more effective there, because we can achieve more for the same money: that means we should make sure that people are not going to go thousands of kilometres on a dangerous escape, but we should help as close as possible, on the spot. we are talking about the budget. but what we always complain about is that we mostly talk about the household. we're just talking about money. i still lack a clear concept worthy of the eu, so that we can finally address these many aspects and find a real solution. we will not be able to solve this crisis with money alone. we'll need money, but not just money. we must finally return to the rule of law in the eu, but also to its uniform application. thank you. thank you.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. let's imagine for a moment a patient in the bed of a psychiatrist who says something like this: i am the head of government of a member state of the european union. when i am in brussels, sitting with my colleagues in the european council, i take decisions in which i call on myself as head of government to make, for example, payments to the eu trust funds to effectively tackle the causes of the refugee crisis. and when i am back in my office in my capital and head of government, i say to myself: 'oh, this is just a general declaration of intent and it is not legally binding at all. this invitation to myself, i'm ignoring it. other what would a psychiatrist do? prescribe medication? i'm sure he'd recommend therapy. what this little anecdote describes is unfortunately the reality of europe today. the european council meetings rightly recommend the creation of trust funds to tackle the root causes of the refugee crisis, and member states do not respond at all or with rather small amounts, but enough to secure a voting right in the allocation of funds. this is in a situation where the member states are facing a shower of money from the eu: the european commission has just presented the amending budget 8 for 2015, which relieves the member states of at least eur 9 billion. so the money's there. and it is more than 100 times the 82 million euros the council wants to set aside in the eu's 2016 draft budget to "respond to unexpected developments" in tackling the causes of displacement next year. i can only appeal to the council to use the political instruments now and make them strong. because the sooner the trust funds effectively tackle the causes of flight, the less unexpected developments there will be!
i have to say, madam president, the aid programme for syria is of course to be welcomed. hopefully, this will help to ensure food supplies to the refugee camps in the region. several eu countries have cut their funding to unhcr in recent years, despite clear warnings of a refugee crisis. our german government and the eu have ignored the problem. now they are trying to win turkey over to secure the eu's external borders, and they are providing generous funds for this. for years turkey has been making backsliding steps in democratization, in freedom of the press, in human rights, et cetera. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. what is the matter with mr juncker? he's not speaking to donald tusk? mr tusk rightly called for the protection of europe's external borders the other day in strasbourg, before the european parliament. europe must take care of its own problems. traditional tasks of each state, such as border protection, must not be sacrificed to the current merkel hippie culture or be outsourced to autocratic regimes such as turkey.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you have said many times in this room that you are interested in violence against women. you have again stressed today that you are very concerned about the daphne programme or its successor programmes. i would like to leave you with another thought: every programme, no matter how good, needs to be embedded in a strategy. i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to present a report on the implementation of the directive on equal treatment for men and women. as rapporteur, i have heard many times that the commission may not want to put forward a strategy, that it does not want to put forward any real action plans. commissioner, if you take it seriously - and i would also like to address the whole commission - if the commission takes it seriously that the issue of violence against women is an important issue in europe and that equality is also an important issue in europe, then we need a gender equality strategy. a daphne programme or a follow-up programme to daphne is part of this, but a subprogramme can never replace a strategy.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on interoperability solutions as a means of modernising the public sector, as i believe it is important to develop the administration and the public sector as a whole in the eu member states in a fast and citizen-friendly way. digitalisation and the concept of smart governance play a major role in this. the eu member states have much to learn from and to grow with each other.
in writing. ‒ greater interoperability between public authorities and the public sector offers many opportunities for citizens. for example, in the event of illness, the number of documents required can be significantly reduced. the period of support decided today is a crucial contribution to ensuring that this development continues.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the interoperability of digital services (isa2) programme is to be welcomed. the main objective of the programme is to improve interoperability between european public administrations and citizens and businesses. by enabling cross-border and cross-sectoral interaction of european public services, the eu is moving in the right direction. the digital revolution should undoubtedly be a model for european public administrations. the digital single market is one of the flagships of the european commission and isa2 represents an important milestone. there is no doubt that this initiative deserves strong support.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the interoperability of digital services (isa2) programme is to be welcomed. the main objective of the programme is to improve interoperability between european public administrations and citizens and businesses. by enabling cross-border and cross-sectoral interaction of european public services, the eu is moving in the right direction. the digital revolution should undoubtedly be a model for european public administrations. the digital single market is one of the flagships of the european commission and isa2 represents an important milestone. there is no doubt that this initiative deserves strong support.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the interoperability of digital services (isa2) programme is to be welcomed. the main objective of the programme is to improve interoperability between european public administrations and citizens and businesses. by enabling cross-border and cross-sectoral interaction of european public services, the eu is moving in the right direction. the digital revolution should undoubtedly be a model for european public administrations. the digital single market is one of the flagships of the european commission and isa2 represents an important milestone. there is no doubt that this initiative deserves strong support.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the interoperability of digital services (isa2) programme is to be welcomed. the main objective of the programme is to improve interoperability between european public administrations and citizens and businesses. by enabling cross-border and cross-sectoral interaction of european public services, the eu is moving in the right direction. the digital revolution should undoubtedly be a model for european public administrations. the digital single market is one of the flagships of the european commission and isa2 represents an important milestone. there is no doubt that this initiative deserves strong support.
in writing. ‒ the creation of the interoperability of digital services (isa2) programme is to be welcomed. the main objective of the programme is to improve interoperability between european public administrations and citizens and businesses. by enabling cross-border and cross-sectoral interaction of european public services, the eu is moving in the right direction. the digital revolution should undoubtedly be a model for european public administrations. the digital single market is one of the flagships of the european commission and isa2 represents an important milestone. there is no doubt that this initiative deserves strong support.
in writing. ‒ i did not agree with the position adopted by parliament in its legislative resolution of 11 november 2015 on the establishment of a programme on interoperability solutions for european public administrations. the main focus of this programme is on efficient cross-border and cross-sectoral interaction between public administrations on the one hand and citizens and businesses on the other. it seeks to enable public administrations to keep up with the rapid developments in the field of information technology. the aim is to modernise the administration and equip it for the digital transformation. the costs amount to eur 131 million. this form of administrative reform is precisely what the eu is sick of: the administration must be thought of from the citizen's point of view. efficient and citizen-centred governance must start at the local level. and that's where the competence has to be. the eu, as the most distant institution from the citizen, symbolises the opposite, trampling on the idea of subsidiarity and simulating closeness to the citizen through expensive programmes. as always in the eu, the dream is one thing, the reality another.
i have to say, madam president, the result of today's vote has shown that the majority of the european parliament would rather remain in the dark than engage in democratic competition. we have seen today how long-serving meps have disregarded a german supreme court ruling which in 2014 ensured that millions of voters could feel involved in the formation of political will. millions of citizens will not vote in future, and the ever-growing political disillusionment will only intensify. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. the european parliament has been elected by the people of europe, and the european parliament has been elected by the people of europe. the seven members of the european parliament are unlikely to be destabilising or even to limit the capacity of parliament to act in the face of 751 members. my party the npd will in any case take all necessary legal action against the abolition of democratic standards.
in writing. ‒ i speak for the german cdu/csu meps:we consider the adoption of this report to be an important step forward, because it contains many changes to the electoral law, which we expressly welcome. this includes, in particular, provisions to increase the exercise of this election, to facilitate participation and to keep parliament functioning. the aim was also to take this step with the widest possible majority. it worked. democracy also means recognising and acknowledging that there are actors in this house who are linking the right to vote with objectives that are not ours or that we currently consider to be unrealistic. in particular, we are sceptical of the transeuropean constituencies for the top candidates, whom we have only voted for in the interests of a large majority for the hübner/leinen report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the reform of eu electoral law today. this report is not, as jo leinen has been saying, a boon to the attractiveness and transparency of the european elections, nor is it a foregone conclusion, as herbert reul, despite all the evidence, claims on the eve of the vote. the spd, cdu and csu have abused the efforts made over many years - especially by their former liberal colleague andrew duff - to bring about a sensible reform of eu electoral law. they are simply seeking to overturn the judgments of the german federal constitutional court on the european back door clause. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is national party politics of the worst kind. a proposal for eu electoral reform has emerged as a meaningless collective mess with democratic chaos guaranteed. and an embarrassing vote result: only 315 out of 604 - a majority of 13 mps, 90 percent from the cdu, csu and epp parliamentary groups. and even within their own factions, the ranks were not closed. anyone who sells that as a victory on such a cutting issue is living in taka-tuka land with pippi longstocking. but not in the democratic reality of europe.
in writing. ‒ the alignment of the different rules in the member states will make regional differences more relative. at the same time, the forthcoming reform will make it easier to take part in elections. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. the parliament's draft also proposed the introduction of a percentage threshold of between 3 and 5%. this is another step in the right direction and prevents the formation of individual splinter groups in parliament due to the absence of barriers to entry.
in writing. ‒ the eu's electoral reform initiative is an attempt to intervene deeply in the electoral law of the member states. the main elements are the introduction of a 3 to 5% clause to make it more difficult for smaller parties to enter the european parliament, the lowering of the voting age to 16 and the lock-in procedure for filling electoral lists, which is intended to enforce a quota for women for all parties and countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the european electoral system puts the people of the large countries at a disadvantage because their votes are worth less. a 3% quota for germany could potentially exclude millions of people from political participation in the european parliament, while the population of smaller states is already represented at far lower levels. that is why this quota system is unacceptable. the forced quota system for men and women is also unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. women's political participation is much lower than that of men and very unequal among the parties. they should continue to be able to select the best candidates in terms of their skills. that is why i voted against the voting rights initiative.
in writing. ‒ the eu's electoral reform initiative is an attempt to intervene deeply in the electoral law of the member states. the main elements are the introduction of a 3 to 5% clause to make it more difficult for smaller parties to enter the european parliament, the lowering of the voting age to 16 and the lock-in procedure for filling electoral lists, which is intended to enforce a quota for women for all parties and countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the european electoral system puts the people of the large countries at a disadvantage because their votes are worth less. a 3% quota for germany could potentially exclude millions of people from political participation in the european parliament, while the population of smaller states is already represented at far lower levels. that is why this quota system is unacceptable. the forced quota system for men and women is also unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. women's political participation is much lower than that of men and very unequal among the parties. they should continue to be able to select the best candidates in terms of their skills. that is why i voted against the voting rights initiative.
in writing. ‒ the eu's electoral reform initiative is an attempt to intervene deeply in the electoral law of the member states. the main elements are the introduction of a 3 to 5% clause to make it more difficult for smaller parties to enter the european parliament, the lowering of the voting age to 16 and the lock-in procedure for filling electoral lists, which is intended to enforce a quota for women for all parties and countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the european electoral system puts the people of the large countries at a disadvantage because their votes are worth less. a 3% quota for germany could potentially exclude millions of people from political participation in the european parliament, while the population of smaller states is already represented at far lower levels. that is why this quota system is unacceptable. the forced quota system for men and women is also unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. women's political participation is much lower than that of men and very unequal among the parties. they should continue to be able to select the best candidates in terms of their skills. that is why i voted against the voting rights initiative.
in writing. ‒ there is an urgent need to establish a binding minimum threshold for the european elections in european electoral law. in germany, for example, a 0.5 per cent share of the vote already leads to one seat in the european parliament. seven seats to minor parties from germany as after the 2014 election exceed the entire luxembourg quota of six seats. the further fragmentation of the european parliament by the increase in the number of national parties represented in it is contrary to the principle of effective representation of the peoples of the member states. in july 2009, there were 170 parties represented in the european parliament, but now there are 204. in germany alone, eight new parties joined in 2014. in the interests of the european parliament's ability to act, a europe-wide blocking clause within the 3% to 5% range should therefore be introduced. i would like to emphasise that i am sceptical about transnational lists. i voted for it in the vote only to avoid jeopardizing the compromise reached on the suspension clause.
in writing. ‒ the eu's electoral reform initiative is an attempt to intervene deeply in the electoral law of the member states. the main elements are the introduction of a 3 to 5% clause to make it more difficult for smaller parties to enter the european parliament, the lowering of the voting age to 16 and the lock-in procedure for filling electoral lists, which is intended to enforce a quota for women for all parties and countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the european electoral system puts the people of the large countries at a disadvantage because their votes are worth less. a 3% quota for germany could potentially exclude millions of people from political participation in the european parliament, while the population of smaller states is already represented at far lower levels. that is why this quota system is unacceptable. the forced quota system for men and women is also unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. women's political participation is much lower than that of men and very unequal among the parties. they should continue to be able to select the best candidates in terms of their skills. that is why i voted against the voting rights initiative.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the bill because it will help us prepare for the next european elections in 2019 and make it easier for citizens to take part. the new european electoral law is intended to establish the top candidates for the office of president of the commission. we want to ensure that this progress towards more european democracy from the 2014 european elections cannot be reversed. the commission has also proposed that the lists be drawn up in all eu member states in accordance with transparent procedures and completed at least 12 weeks before the elections, in order to ensure sufficient time for the content of the campaign. i hope that the council will adopt this proposal swiftly.
in writing. ‒ the eu's electoral reform initiative is an attempt to intervene deeply in the electoral law of the member states. the main elements are the introduction of a 3 to 5% clause to make it more difficult for smaller parties to enter the european parliament, the lowering of the voting age to 16 and the lock-in procedure for filling electoral lists, which is intended to enforce a quota for women for all parties and countries. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. the european electoral system puts the people of the large countries at a disadvantage because their votes are worth less. a 3% quota for germany could potentially exclude millions of people from political participation in the european parliament, while the population of smaller states is already represented at far lower levels. that is why this quota system is unacceptable. the forced quota system for men and women is also unacceptable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. women's political participation is much lower than that of men and very unequal among the parties. they should continue to be able to select the best candidates in terms of their skills. that is why i voted against the voting rights initiative.
in writing. ‒ i reject the parliament's resolution of 11 november 2015 on the reform of eu electoral law. the two major political groups european christian democrats and social democrats are working together to prevent competition. they all vote for a reform of eu electoral law which is only relevant to spain and germany. the federal constitutional court had argued that european law did not provide for a mandatory percentage threshold and therefore rejected the 3% threshold decided by the bundestag for germany as unlawful. now the spd and cdu are forcing germany to re-introduce a 3% threshold by changing eu voting rights. the arguments of the federal constitutional court are deliberately undermined. the major parties get what they have always wanted: the elimination of unfriendly competition. a few more posts and mandates at the expense of the party's offer. the fdp and sonneborn are not bothering anyone, but the 3% threshold is a barrier for small parties. political diversity is in danger of being lost. i think that this decision by the spd and cdu is a bad decision, and that it was taken purely for their own benefit. the eu's co-founder, robert schuman, once said: 'democracy is only as good as those who speak in its name.' the european parliament has voted unanimously for this amendment to the electoral law, and the european union's democracy is not worth much.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on a future aviation package, as i very much welcome the approach and the focus of the subject. the following aspects are important to me: european aviation must be competitive in international competition without, however, abandoning important demands and lofty goals. europe's aviation must be consumer-friendly first and foremost. europe's aviation must protect citizens and the environment that is, take into account local people for example by banning short-haul flights, respect for flora and fauna and fair taxation of emissions. finally, european aviation must also guarantee a high level of safety - here european airlines should be among the world leaders and foster innovation.
in writing. ‒ the aviation industry is a pillar of the international competitiveness of the european economy. it is here that many jobs are created directly and indirectly. the commission has therefore decided to propose a new approach to the problem of the environment.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution of 11 november 2015 on air transport. although i see a role for the eu in regulating air traffic over europe, there must be room for manoeuvre for the member states. the resolution is far too detailed, too bureaucratic and does not respect the principle of subsidiarity. the resolution is also superfluous, since the commission is about to present its proposals anyway.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday, 11 november 2015.
i am not going to go into detail. ten days ago, france was attacked in the most brutal way. terrorists who, on an unprecedented scale, with unprecedented brutality, have torn ordinary people, especially young men and women, from their lives and brutally murdered them. we are here today as an institution based in france for the first time on french soil since these attacks. i therefore, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your great participation in the condolences last week, and i repeat once again our full solidarity with the french nation, our sympathy with the families of those killed, our hope for the speedy recovery of the seriously injured. but the same is true of the victims of the attacks in bamako. the same applies to the victims of attacks in other places where innocent people are slaughtered by deranged terrorists. ladies and gentlemen, we live in a time of tremendous challenges. the number of attacks we should be thinking about here, because we cannot make a hierarchy in the list of victims and each victim is worth the same to us this list is long. that is why commemorating the victims in paris and bamako is at the same time commemorating the victims, the innocents, in other parts of the world, and in particular in syria and iraq, where this self-proclaimed islamic state is trying to destroy all basic rights, even civilization values, with its brutality. every memorial is a memorial to the victims of this violence. in this spirit, not only for the victims of paris and bamako, but for the victims of terrorism in general, i ask you to rise from your seats. (parliament adopted the resolution) thank you, thank you. ladies and gentlemen, i had the sad duty this morning of representing the european parliament at the state funeral of the late former chancellor of the federal republic of germany, helmut schmidt. helmut schmidt was a great politician not only for the federal republic of germany but also for the european union. helmut schmidt was, as you all know, one of the founders of the european monetary system, in particular with former president valéry giscard d'estaing. mr schmidt has made a huge contribution to the deepening of european integration and to the cooperation of peoples across borders, both during his time as prime minister and later as a journalist. helmut schmidt was a leader who, in my country, in times of the greatest terrorist challenge, upheld a principle which i believe we can learn from today, a principle best expressed in albert camus's phrase: 'those who fail to reconcile freedom and security fail at everything.' i think that should be a guide for us in the next challenges ahead. we must make the security of our citizens, including our own, as effective as possible. but we must never allow those who seek to frighten us to destroy our freedoms. this is the task of the european parliament in particular. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on thursday 19 november 2015 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. monday:the gue/ngl group proposes that the debate on the oral question to the commission on a new animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020 be concluded by a resolution, which can then be voted on on thursday.
mrs alliot-marie, i must compliment you on your skillful wording in favour of the motion, despite your opposition to it and your protest. i'll see you later. the colleagues want an electronic check. (parliament adopted the resolution) tuesday: no changes. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. over a year ago, luxleaks exposed the scandalous tax deals of multinational corporations with eu member states. every policeman in the village knows that you can't close an investigation until all the evidence has been evaluated. but we have been systematically denied access to important documents. it is only here in parliament that this has not been clear to everyone. that's why we had a big back and forth last week. that is why i am calling for the vote to be postponed, or for it to be called an interim report, or whatever. the current mandate must not expire and must be renewed this week. the agenda shall be amended accordingly. otherwise we'll be making ourselves totally untrustworthy in the fight against tax havens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i ask for an explanation because i understood my colleague, the green applicant, to say that the application will be withdrawn only if there is a clear commitment that we all in the house will vote in favour of the extension. i can say on behalf of my group that the epp group wants the six-month extension to clarify the open questions that are still outstanding. the basis for this would be lost if other groups confirmed that we would make a clear commitment on thursday to support the extension. we can then vote as usual on wednesday. i think that is what the honourable members have said. and we as a group would like to clarify the open questions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i have been asked to say on behalf of the socialist group that it is of course in favour of voting on the ferreira report on wednesday, despite all the unrest that has arisen, of having it discussed at the conference of presidents on thursday and of voting in plenary on thursday afternoon to renew the committee. i am grateful to mr lambert for withdrawing the motion.
(the applicant withdraws the application.)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the commission statement on the state of play of the doha development agenda in the run-up to the 10th wto ministerial conference (2015/2632 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank the co-rapporteur, mr zalba bidegain. i wonder if the light will be turned off for the wto in nairobi. because there are those who want the doha development round to be dropped altogether in nairobi. i cannot see how we can develop the doha development round and the wto and also develop a work programme beyond nairobi, as the commissioner has just said, if we do not bring a positive reference to the doha development round into these negotiations. if some say: 'doha is dead, we only have to look at new elements now' - e-commerce, investment, the question of currency speculation - yes, ladies and gentlemen, the wedge is being driven further towards division. so let us try to go beyond multilateralism and look positively at the doha development round in the 2008 package. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but that we need to put development first is clear in the face of the migration challenge. it is also clear that developing countries are not developing countries. we must also be honest: emerging countries have a different level of responsibility, and they must take it. everyone has to take responsibility.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commissioner, mr president! the german state secretary, mr machnig, publicly complained that he had to travel to africa just before christmas to attend the wto ministerial conference in nairobi. it was already established that there is only a mouse born. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. if you go to nairobi and really only have the old concepts of free trade in your baggage, you are wasting time. the 60 million refugees in the world demonstrate the serious impact of the errors in international trade policy since the establishment of the wto. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no, pascal lamy is right to demand that the wto finally integrate its work into the objectives of governments, civil society and international organisations. the doha round was supposed to overcome the poverty that led to the recruitment of the 9/11 terrorists. the fact that this objective was forgotten too soon is a reminder of recent events. the fundamental change in the objectives and mechanisms of international trade policy and its rules must be discussed in nairobi. no more, but no less! it is about the future of the multilateral trading system and it is about the prospects and a yes to doha.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not my group is in favour of fair trade. unlike free trade, we believe that there needs to be a fair forum, a global forum where trading partners - strong and weak - can sit down and come up with solutions that benefit all trading partners. we in the eu are undoubtedly a strong trading partner with a great deal of influence. we do not believe that it is in the interest of world trade and the people of the eu to impose our free trade agenda on weak trading partners. and we are not alone in this view. the world trade organisation has also set up a special and differential treatment programme for all developing countries to this end. this gives developing countries market access and improved conditions, while allowing them to build up their domestic economies largely without the risk of foreign imports. in our resolution you are calling for developing countries to be divided into certain categories and thus for those countries which have been able to improve their economies in recent decades through these and other measures to be more open. we are firmly opposed to such a split, which would benefit the strongest trading partners. the resolution reaffirms support for multilateral approaches to world trade, but at the same time supports plurilateral agreements such as tisa, which undermine the wto and do not, as claimed, complement the wto agenda. the broad market access provisions in these agreements remove any incentive for the rich countries to conclude the doha round seriously and in harmony with the developing countries. doha must not become a negotiating round of kill or be killed! we call on the commission to come to the aid of the developing countries. we have therefore tabled a number of amendments to make our resolution more fair and objective. i hope that approach will be supported. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. it is so far right that we can offer our agricultural products on terms that are not available in developing countries. in other words, many of the plurilateral and bilateral agreements are seriously disrupting the domestic agricultural economy. i have to agree with you on that. but that doesn't affect the rest of what i said.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. of course, it would be nice if the wto rounds were so advanced that we no longer needed bilateral agreements. we could save ourselves all the fuss about ttip, ceta and so on. but i want to point out something else: why are globalization and free trade so important? we must not forget that globalisation is not just bringing goods, services and investments around the world, but also ideas and values. it is thanks to globalisation that we have now recognised human rights as a global challenge and opportunity. and we also see that there are more democracies in the world today than ever before. this too is a consequence of globalisation. so we have to stand up for the wto, for trade, because trade leads to more than prosperity. moreover, ladies and gentlemen, here is my ceterum censeo. i believe that the single euro is only a source of discord and division in europe and must therefore be abolished. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think that if we had an ideal global agreement, we could all avoid these bilateral agreements. however, it must be said that all bilateral agreements have contributed more to world trade than the wto has so far. the aim, however, remains clear to me: we must make the wto a success on a global scale, and then we will no longer need these agreements.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. next week, on 2 december, the prime minister of vietnam will come to brussels and sign the trade agreement. i think this is a very good agreement that has been negotiated between vietnam and the european union. it has a very clear but asymmetrical roadmap for tariff reduction, standards have been agreed, 169 gi's have been accepted by vietnam 169 gi's other partner countries should take an example from this. the public procurement has been agreed and basically a level playing field has been created. in this respect, it is a truly remarkable agreement. and in that agreement too, the preamble makes clear reference to the 1945 charter of the united nations and the 1948 universal declaration of human rights. so, in the trade agreement there is a clear reference to the question of human rights and the safeguarding of human rights. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the exporting producers concerned have been granted a preferential treatment under the pca. i think we can all agree, ladies and gentlemen, that human rights and trade are of course closely linked. i cannot imagine a trading relationship where human rights are not respected. the tpp agreement, which vietnam has also signed, explicitly links progress in human rights development with the opening up of markets, so that an automatic system has been developed. so human rights are part of the trade. if you look at vietnam now, we all know that vietnam is a very dynamic country, it is in a process of transformation and it has challenges and there are many human rights issues that need to be addressed, especially the issue of freedom of expression. the instrument is, of course, the human rights dialogue under the clause in the partnership and cooperation agreement and linked to the trade agreement. and there's a little bit of the gist. the question is how to improve this human rights dialogue so that it might be a little more effective. perhaps in five points the question of whether we need improvements, so the question of the definition of the objectives for the human rights dialogue, we need concrete milestones in the talks. sometimes i feel like the conversation is just a little off. secondly, how can civil society be better involved in the dialogue? we have the civil society forum, we have domestic advisory groups. i believe that the trade agreement will also lead to the development of independent trade unions, we can guarantee clear rules for integration and also material support where civil society does not have the appropriate means. thirdly, we can still improve the coherence of the eu, both what happens at the level of the commission and the eads, but also at the different levels of negotiations and talks, so that there is really coherence in eu policy. fourthly, what is the situation with regard to the evaluation of the human rights dialogue? can you get better benchmarks, better indicators? and fifth, transparency - this is a favorite topic of ours - that you can certainly increase transparency in human rights dialogue. so, some questions on how to strengthen this human rights dialogue, particularly with regard to vietnam, but also, of course, in view of the trade strategy, for other agreements.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. vietnam is a dynamic, young country, with 90 million people, and above all a country which does not wait for work but creates it. i found that in vietnam over and over again. we have a communist government, a communist party, which not only wants socialism, but also wants to increase national wealth through state intervention. of course, and you know this, people can speak freely and act freely as long as they don't disturb the authorities. now comes the human rights issue: i think it's wrong to always work on the normative track in human rights. you have to do it. we should take a different approach, an analytical approach. in a world of globalization, if you want to get out of the imitation and create something yourself, you need people who can think. we can only think and negotiate if we have human rights. the vietnamese should be made to understand that it is in their own interest - for an analytical reason - that they should come to human rights.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the protection of human rights is at the heart of the european union and the european project and should also be at the heart of european trade policy. the human rights situation in vietnam is not looking good at the moment. vietnam is far behind when it comes to press freedom. non-governmental organisations are prohibited, as are political parties and trade unions. the commission has just presented its new trade strategy, which puts human rights at the forefront in an exemplary way. but it is also a question of how we implement this in our trade policy. we have a lot to catch up on in vietnam, because we do not have, for example, an impact assessment of the trade agreement on human rights on the ground in vietnam. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. we have not seen such human rights provisions in this agreement. that's why it's very important that we look at concrete ways that we can improve trade in vietnam when it comes to human rights. we have had good words so far, but these words must be followed by action.
madam president, during my visit to hanoi this month i saw a capital with a lively growing economy and remarkable results in achieving many of the millennium development goals, but i also learned about the absence of free trade unions and increased pressure on human rights activists, and that the country ranks 175 out of 180 countries in the 2015 press freedom index. the changes that come with more trade and with free trade agreements do not automatically lead to a society without economic inequalities, without human rights violations and with strong labour rights. therefore, i welcomed very much that the commission already in 2012 committed itself to systematically carrying out human rights impact assessments for free trade agreements, which it expressed in the eu action plan for human rights and democracy. in april 2014, this parliament urged the commission to carry out as soon as possible a human rights impact assessment. despite several reminders, open letters and so on, and even strong criticism from the eu ombudsperson that the fact of not doing so would amount to maladministration, the commission refused to follow this recommendation. the main reason recently given was the lack of time and the fact that the commission does not want to delay the conclusion of the free trade agreement. but the commission committed to including a human rights impact assessment in the next ex—post evaluation. un experts this summer voiced clear concerns over the adverse impact of free trade and investment agreements on human rights and also called for ex—ante and ex—post human rights impact assessments. i do not think that any explanation of sustainability criteria in the eu free trade agreement with vietnam will be sufficient. the commission should do nothing less than a thorough human rights impact assessment.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we welcome the accession of ecuador to the agreement because we originally wanted an andean agreement, because integration at regional level is of course also an important and central element in our policy towards the countries of latin america. i also think that we have worked well together on the resolution with mr scholz, mr fisas ayxelà and the other speakers. thank you very much. i think the orientation is also right: we want to organise accession, but we also want to improve implementation. that is why we refer to the roadmap we have launched in colombia and peru - by the way, with mário david and myself as the traders who negotiated this roadmap with the governments, because in fact, madam commissioner - you are absolutely right here - not only the negotiations are crucial, but the implementation is crucial and successive in the implementation, especially as regards the question of workers' rights, environmental standards, to walk together a path to achieve improvements. in this respect, ecuador is certainly called upon to follow the path of colombia and peru, in order to make progress here too, particularly with regard to the question of labour inspectors, since the ilo convention of 1929 has not yet been signed. so here we will have to show a joint commitment from the commission and parliament to ensure implementation.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the government of ecuador has decided to accede to the eu's free trade agreement with colombia and peru. it has also succumbed to the economic constraints created by tariff advantages for its neighbours competing in eu trade and the simultaneous removal of gsp plus benefits for ecuador by the eu. in fact, ecuador had proposed its own trade and development agreement, also in order to be able to continue the remarkable development path begun in partnership with the eu for a social and environmentally conscious country in the andean region. we all know that the european parliament's approval of the agreement with colombia and peru was for a long time uncertain, indeed controversial. it was made conditional on concrete steps being taken to improve the human rights situation, the social situation and the protection of the environment in the region. these are the objectives for which the government of ecuador has been particularly successful in recent years. that's why we need to look closely. the accession of ecuador to this agreement is an important moment for the country itself, but also for checking whether the provisions of the general agreement with the andean countries and their implementation correspond to our expectations in social and economic terms. the first figures which the commission has given us on the development of trade with the other two andean countries are far below initial expectations. and so, yes, once again, we must also look closely at the implementation of the agreement and keep to it. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area, which is to be signed by the member states and the european parliament, is a step in the right direction. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for a resolution which is close to these objectives.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i must apologize, but i have realized the value of open borders, and today the border between germany and france was closed. i've been at the border for over two hours. i welcome the fact that the epp group is calling for the commission to draw up a new animal welfare strategy for the coming period. we all know, especially as farmers, that animal welfare is a top priority. only healthy animals, only animals that are well kept, produce performance. we all want to ensure that not only the animals on the farm are well-behaved, but also the pets. we should also include this in the new animal welfare strategy. i would like to make one point, however: we must not exaggerate the whole thing. if it leads to production being moved away from europe to other continents, then we are sinning against animal welfare. from 1976 to 2008, livestock production, meat production, increased by only 6% in europe and 385% in asia. that means if we stifle our farmers too much, they will be moved to areas where our animal welfare laws don't apply. i therefore ask that we do this with a certain amount of care, that we take into account the welfare of the animals, but that we do it in such a way that production is maintained in our country and that small farms are not particularly endangered. strict regulations mean that small farmers are the first to close their farms. i can only give one example: if we really do get the ban on cow-hanging, many small-scale miners in the alpine region will close their farms. that's why i'm asking that we find something reasonable. i'm very confident about that, too.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu has committed itself in the lisbon treaty to take account of the welfare needs of animals as sentient beings. but animals suffer terribly in mass farming, long-distance transport and slaughterhouses. they suffer in animal experiments, and hundreds of thousands of stray animals are killed in europe every year. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. there is not even a breeding code for fattening rabbits. i wonder where the european commission's will to change this situation is. the animal welfare strategy, which expires this year, has been implemented in an utterly inadequate manner, with almost half of all the points it contains still open. we need to get out of cage systems, for example, and fight animal mutilation. in the field of animal testing, we must make the adoption of already validated test methods mandatory and we must also push for compliance with our animal welfare standards in trade agreements. i call on the commission to promote an ambitious animal welfare strategy. a postponement is simply unacceptable! the citizens of europe do not want to wait any longer! when i think of animals, all i can say is, i can't stand the pain anymore. to the commission: please, please, do not become desk clerks when it comes to animals and animal cruelty! now show some moral greatness! act now! that is what the citizens of europe expect of you. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr eck, i have a question for you: how do you explain the creation of the largest mass enterprises in germany, where your former party friends have ruled? in western germany, there was peasant farming. in east germany, where the communists ruled for 45 years, mass enterprises were created. i'd like you to explain how that was possible.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. capital always goes where it has the easiest opportunities to expand. in east germany, this was possible. but please remember where the investors came from: many from the netherlands, for example. so you have to see that too. it has nothing to do with this party. it has nothing to do with our topic today, where we're talking about an animal welfare strategy.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i think that our colleague mrs schreijer-pierik has described the situation from the farmer's point of view correctly. i am increasingly concerned about the question: should we not, as the european parliament, even consider the protection of domestic animals, because there is little regulation and little control in this area? i mean, animals suffer in the domestic and pet world, too. would that not be a matter for the european parliament?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. for me, the question is, why not? why should there not be a new strategy for animal welfare? what's the background? it is not only in this committee, when it comes to the strategy for animal welfare, but also in other committees, that we as a parliament have to learn that strategies are no longer being put forward. i would like to mention as another example the strategy for gender equality in europe. why not? - why not? why does the commission refuse to set out clear objectives, a clear road map, an action plan with data, so that we can really see how progress is being made in europe? i cannot imagine that the many subjects which have been raised by my colleagues can be left out of the discussion. we need a clear framework and we need a strategy. i have to say, quite frankly, that i really appreciate the field of human medicine that you're working on. i would ask you once again to take similar action in the field of animal welfare. we need a strategy, and we need it now!
the commission has already done so. i welcome anything that contributes to better animal welfare, and this is also a top priority for the vast majority of farmers in the eu. the community's agricultural policy is a very important one. we have made great strides, and the investment programmes designed to encourage farmers to invest in modern forms of animal husbandry have also been good instruments. switzerland, for example, certifies techniques that promote animal welfare. that would be an approach for us too. we need feasible pathways and feasible processes. common markets must not be lost. however, i see a major problem in the fact that we have such different approaches to animal welfare within the 28 member states. we need to harmonize here. i would be very interested in introducing a pet certificate for all pet owners. the farmers have a good education, and every private owner should have one.
in writing. i will support the european parliament's resolution on the motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. the measures seem to me to be well balanced. the amendments tabled by the left and the greens with a view to better protecting certain animals - fish, pigs, laying hens, game, etc. - i will reject through the bank because they always call for action by the european commission. i reject that. i am opposed to any major transfer of competence to the eu. the eu should not be making any rules. i do not therefore exclude the possibility of supporting individual projects at national level. but the eu should benefit from its diversity, which is best ensured by finding different solutions to difficult and controversial issues i.e. less eu, more self-determination.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur ms zuber for this comprehensive report on child poverty. we have taken note of your analysis and we do share your concerns about the high levels of child poverty in many of our member states. as you have pointed out, the risk of poverty and social exclusion is greater for children than for adults. child poverty is a multifaceted issue that demands an integrated and – to the extent possible – preventive approach, looking at both the employment situation of the household and also the rights of the child. the fight against child poverty has been high on our agenda. in 2013, the commission proposed the recommendation ‘investing in children: breaking the cycle of disadvantage’, which is currently being implemented by member states. the commission will keep working to ensure the full operationalisation of this recommendation. in this respect we take note of your suggestion to have a three-pillar approach: access to resources, services and children’s participation. we are also monitoring child-poverty related aspects in the context of the european semester. in its 2013 recommendation, the commission suggested that the best way to support parents and their children is through progressive universalism, which is a system of strong universal services and benefit rights topped up with targeted instruments for particularly disadvantaged groups, such as the roma. the recommendation calls on the member states to provide parents with access to resources, in the form of paid work and adequate family and child benefits, and to high-quality services such as early childhood education and care, health and housing. an integrated approach is key to ensuring children have the best start in life. the commission has also been regularly monitoring the member states’ progress towards the barcelona targets to improve access to childcare. good-quality childcare services have been shown to support the cognitive and social development of children, especially those from low-income backgrounds, and improve their academic and labour market opportunities later on in life. these services are therefore key to reducing the intergenerational transmission of poverty. many member states have made good efforts to improve the provision of these services, but progress is still slow and uneven. we are providing country-specific recommendations to many member states where needed. in 2014 and 2015 many member states received country-specific recommendations to improve income support for families, to expand childcare, as well as to make education more inclusive and to reduce financial disincentives for parents to enter employment. as far as creating a new financial instrument in this area is concerned, we would like to recall that there are already funding opportunities for children in the current european structural and investment funds: the european social fund, the european regional development fund, and others. these instruments have been, in fact, significantly strengthened for the current 2014-2020 programming period. member states should make further efforts to use them to their full potential. in addition, member states have agreed that 25.6% of the european social fund allocation of eur 86 billion is to be earmarked for social inclusion measures, of which eur 8 billion is set aside for access to children’s and childcare services and for measures fighting against early school leaving. in this regard, it is important that all key stakeholders at national, regional and local level are mobilised and form strong partnerships. the european union funds are also supporting healthy nutrition for children. with the european union school fruit scheme, eur 150 million will support the distribution of fruit and vegetables in schools for 2015 and 2016. with these funds we can reach 12 million children across 25 member states. in addition, there is national or private co-funding, estimated to amount to around eur 32 million. all these financial interventions are extremely important for preventing and breaking the intergenerational transmission of poverty and social exclusion. as you know, the commission is currently working on a european pillar of social rights to foster upward convergence of employment and social performance in the european union. we want to ensure that our legislation and policy framework is in line with the realities of modern life – teleworking, digital work, combining work and family duties – and keeps pace with developments in the fast-changing labour market, adequately addressing needs and challenges arising from diverse and innovative forms of work, and that it invests in people through a modernised social framework for those in and out of work. we are also preparing a fresh start for working parents and caregivers. we believe that this new approach will reap benefits for all; in particular, for working parents and other caregivers who seek a better balance to their work and life commitments, but also for women, to support their participation in the labour market. finally, as the employment status of parents is one of the key determinants of child poverty, this initiative will contribute to reducing the number of children who live in households at risk of poverty. let me assure you once again that this commission is committed to addressing child poverty across the european union by restoring economic growth and upward social convergence, fostering job creation and ensuring social fairness. these are not mere abstract concepts. for the 40% of children in some of our member states who live in households at risk of poverty, we need to come with effective solutions to foster employment of their parents and to ensure their full participation in society.
in writing. i support the resolution because we must send a clear signal against child poverty and its social exclusion. unfortunately, child poverty is widespread in the eu even in germany. poverty is not just a matter of money to meet basic needs such as food, clothing and shelter. child poverty is also associated with social exclusion and lack of access to quality education and health services. children are our future, and it is our responsibility to provide them with free access to quality education. the eu is one of the strongest economies on earth, and there can be no excuse for children to be malnourished in any of our member states.
rapporteur.– madam president, first of all i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the great civil—society organisations and everyone else who has contributed to making this report what it is: a great starting point for making the right changes to european cohesion policy in order to make it more inclusive for marginalised communities – or, as commissioner crețu put it last week, to make the inclusion of marginalised communities one of the priorities for eu cohesion policy. this report is made for people who very often do not have a lobby in this parliament and in eu institutions. it is made for people who are very often overlooked and overheard when it comes to the distribution of eu funds. in the preparation of this report, i have seen examples of where this is still happening today in the european union. in my hometown, gelsenkirchen, i visited a school where i met two girls – two sisters, denise and michaela, 10 and 12 years old – who had recently moved from romania to gelsenkirchen. i met them in their class. they were curious, they wanted to learn, and they were really trying to get integrated into the school in gelsenkirchen. but the question that came up in my head was: will denise and michaela have the same chances and opportunities that i had when i was growing up in gelsenkirchen? will they have the same access to resources i had? when we look at the situation of denise and michaela, there are challenges that they are facing, because very often they are being discriminated against or they are facing structural exclusion. this report can give the tools to cities such as gelsenkirchen to create an integrated approach in order to give a chance to children like this, be it in education or with regard to housing, employment or health. we need to look at different fields of society in order to give a chance to people from marginalised communities. at the same time, we have to bring all the stakeholders together, be they from the local level, from civil society or the people affected themselves, in order to create the best programmes and to really make sustainable investments. and we need to give support for them to have a strong voice in the whole process – not only in the preparation, but also in the monitoring and evaluation, of the programmes. secondly, we simply cannot afford to live in segregated societies, because in the long run, inequality and exclusion is much more expensive for us than inclusion and integration. this is why we need to make sure that eu funds actually reach the people that need them the most. this report will give a very clear signal to both the commission and the member states to do exactly that. be it community-led local development or strong implementation of the partnership principle, or be it monitoring our evaluation mechanisms that need to be improved, we have these tools and we need to implement them in order to make eu funds more inclusive. lastly, alongside the set of good measures and proposals that are in this report, we also need to speak very clearly about the problems. let us not shy away from clearly mentioning the obstacles that we are still facing to have inclusive societies in the european union. be it corruption or fraud, be it the lack of political will or anti-gypsyism, we need to name these barriers in order to create good implementation and overcome these problems. human rights are the basis of the european union. let us mainstream human rights in all policy fields in this parliament and make them also the basis of our work with regard to eu structural funds, because in the end, this is going to create societies where everybody has a chance and can live equally. i want to thank again everyone who has contributed to this report and i hope that it will find your support tomorrow in the vote.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need to talk about the relationship between open borders, terrorism and security legislation. mrs. hohlmeier shot the bird down here last week. it has given the greens and the left a share of responsibility for the terrorist attacks in paris because they are against greater surveillance of citizens. the terrorists have come overland. passenger records are no help. border controls would help. the terrorists are coordinating with each other by sms, and the french's long-standing practice of data retention is of no use - it has not been used, and a ban on encryption is certainly not. the terrorists already have illegal weapons. it's a piece of eu madness that there's now a discussion about tightening gun laws for legal gun owners and for sport shooters and for hunters. the borders must be controlled, which is what the csu and mrs hohlmeier do not want either, and that is the problem.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. you spoke of a pioneering role. i ask you: what happens if the european union moves forward on its own and no one rides behind it?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the energy union - as the debate today shows - is a marathon. we have just started and it is worth all the effort to really finish this marathon, because the competitiveness of european industry has been raised many times. on the other hand, we have the issue of climate change. we are likely to have 200 million climate refugees from other continents if we do not change course, if there is no decisive agreement in paris. that is why we should look at the energy union as a whole. i must compliment you: the commissioner spends a lot of time on the ground, talking to local actors. it is not just in brussels in the ivory tower that decisions are made and laws are spit out, but on the ground, people are discussing them. that's very positive. but what must happen at the end of the day - and this has also been made clear in the debate today - is that in the area of energy efficiency, for example, we need robust legislation, we need concrete measures. it is not a matter of voluntary action, but the industry and those who want to take money and invest at the end of the day also need investment security. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. because that's what creates work at the end of the day. every kilowatt hour, every ton of oil that we don't have to burn or convert into electricity is good. this strengthens the competitiveness of european industry and also ensures that energy policy is socially oriented. i can only remind all the member states that the european energy union is also the key to national energy problems at the end of the day. only together will it become a shoe. we should also look back at history: something like the european coal and steel community, we should also start with the energy union and knit it. it's an integration project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i had to be here on time this morning because there are border checks again on the french-german border. the european union is a global energy community, and its ambition is to become a global energy community. the commission's concepts also bow to the logic of the principalities, otherwise they would not co-finance a new nuclear power plant for 35 years, otherwise they would not push for the coal phase-out and give fracking hope again. instead of small states, we need european recognition of the global reality that climate change cannot be stopped by half-heartedness. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. with a cryptic 27%, without national commitments, you can't get much further. we don't need the gas union. we need an energy union that tackles greenhouse gases, that actually makes climate protection a top priority and that effectively protects consumers from energy poverty. the commission is a long way from that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, you have stated some objectives here, such as sustainable energy costs, security of supply, decarbonisation of the economy, reliable sources of energy and so on. do you realise that the german government's solitary decision to abandon nuclear energy is contrary to all these objectives? not only that, but it is also an act of lack of solidarity, because the federal government had not consulted any of its nine neighbours at the time. and it would not have been able to do so at all if france, for example, had done the same. i think it's time we started to realize that there are 400 nuclear power plants in the world today, 70 new projects. that is why nuclear energy must not be made a taboo. moreover - and here comes my well-known ceterum censeo - i believe that the single euro is nothing but a source of discord and division in europe and must therefore be abolished. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not sure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. he comes for two reasons: first, as we are now seeing at hinkley point, nuclear power is priceless. we pay far more for nuclear energy than we do for large-scale solar energy. secondly, do you consider that the number of deaths in the vicinity of nuclear power stations, which is clearly evidenced by statistics, is responsible, do you consider that it is acceptable?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. first of all, i would like to point out that politicians should not get used to doing business with fear. you just did that again. (interruption by klaus buchner: facts and figures) i do not believe that there is a risk of an earthquake in the north sea and that a tsunami could swell the elbe and the rhine to damage german nuclear power stations that are safe. and as regards the cost of nuclear power, you are quite right: it should indeed be left to the market.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. responsible energy policy means that we care about the climate issue as much as we care about the competitiveness issue, about the impact on jobs, the impact on industry, the impact on government revenues through taxes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this respect, mr šefčovič, i think it is all right that you submit a report every year, so that we can simply take stock, so that we can stop having a new plan every day for where the world should go. the race to get higher numbers, higher percentages, new visions and whatnot, is quark, is real nonsense. we need a realistic energy policy, and that means looking at how far the member states have come and what needs to be done. and then make a pragmatic decision and not have a dance of dreams. we have to decide pragmatically how we are going to do this with the network expansion. we talk about it all the time, but what do we do in practice? why don't they build networks? what's the problem? probably because there's not enough money to be made. the question is what can be done about it. or the question of promoting renewable energy with dozens of different pots in europe. i think it is good that a further step is being taken now to consider whether this cannot be concentrated on a european scale in a support, in a means, so that the means also go where they are most effective. and thirdly, it is a strength that member states have different concepts of the energy mix. that's not a weakness, that's a strength! i am against our talking them into it, just because there are some dream dancers on the road who say nuclear energy is out of the question, coal is out of the question.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the first year of the energy union, the commission has focused a lot on cooperation with member states, which is also very positive. however, only two legislative proposals were submitted to parliament. i would have liked a little more momentum and determination, for example in setting the energy and climate targets for 2030, for example in the national energy and climate plans that member states have to draw up or - let us say rather - should draw up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. because energy diplomacy is not a substitute for law. i would have liked to have had a little more of an enforcement of the diversification strategy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the gas supply from azerbaijan and turkmenistan is not affected by the crisis. so my question is: what has the commission achieved in the last year to increase diversification? what concrete alternatives do we have to russian gas in the short term? it is always very easy to criticize the nord stream project. i am still waiting for the alternative proposals. we are in a mutual dependence with russia - with ups and downs - but the gas is supplied. the fact that russia must play by the rules of the game in europe is, of course, beyond question. but speaking of rules of the game, they apply to all eu member states, not just to gas imports.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! we have huge problems in europe and in the member states, for example terrorism and the refugee problem. some of you may wonder why we are discussing energy here, decarbonisation of the energy industry in the first place. i think that's right, first because there are many reasons, but also because we have direct links to our big problems of terrorism and refugees. the islamic state, which threatens europe, already owns oil wells and sells the oil, thus financing terrorism. a strong source of funding for the islamic state is that rich saudis and rich qataris are delivering the money there. where did they get this? it's also because we have such a huge energy appetite. so part of the strategy, not the whole strategy, but part of the strategy against the islamic state is to become more independent of imports from this area. when i talk about refugees, it is certainly true that we have to do a lot in the area of climate protection to avoid large flows of refugees. that is why what the commission is doing is right. but i would encourage them to go one step further in energy efficiency, to go up by 27%. and i would encourage them not to take a step without the european parliament. everything that has been in the codecision procedure so far must remain in the codecision procedure. there must be no new methods of governance that parliament does not take into account. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, i'm happy to answer that. i think this is a very important point that we need to focus more on, that we not only look at the direct costs, but also the indirect costs. i would like to give an example of what the commission has to calculate very precisely in terms of energy efficiency. the commission has so far been able to arrive at a relatively unambitious figure of 27% because it has calculated very high discount rates. so she's assuming that people don't do something that would actually make sense over the life cycle, like insulating their house or buying a new heater, because they can't find a suitable handyman. i think that's our job as politicians to empower people to save over the cycle. if there are obstacles, we must remove them, not say that it will not work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. europe is exceeding its ambitious co2 targets for 2020. europe is exceeding its ambitious 2020 renewable energy targets. europe will also achieve its energy efficiency targets by 2020. in any case, the european union is by far the global leader in environmental and climate protection. but at what cost? we have the highest energy costs in the world. we are unsettling the industry by constantly interfering with the emissions trading system, which leads to investment elsewhere. we're making energy legislation so complicated that many countries can't keep up with it, for example, on energy efficiency. mr president, now that vice-president šefčovič says 2016 will be the year of events and climate commissioner cañete is impatient indeed, for him 2016 will even be the year of legislation , all i can say is: please use this to bring european environmental objectives more in line with the competitiveness of the european economy. so what that means in concrete terms is: simplify, focus on the most important co2 target. we must set a framework for the legislation that we will then need, but that is all. in concrete terms, this means giving renewable energies a chance to breathe by harmonizing their promotion and by expanding the networks and interconnectors. provide incentives for energy efficiency instead of the compulsion to save energy, which would then also hit green energy. the energy transition must not be a cost driver or a brake on growth. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. unlike you, my dear colleague, i always take as a benchmark what the consumer receives, what the kilowatt hour costs in the private household, and i take as a benchmark what the industry costs per kilowatt hour. i can tell you that in global comparison, we are unfortunately the leaders. i can prove this to you with any statistic, and this is also a result of our very regulatory policy.
i am not going to go into detail. i should have said this before, but i have more than twice the number of messages i can take into account. i ask your understanding that i am using criteria. this concerns colleagues who have spoken before. it also concerns colleagues from political groups whose speakers have overspent their time, so that i had to deprive them of the floor. all of this leads to the fact that you can't hire more people in the catch-the-eye procedure. i therefore ask for your understanding that i have a line which i maintain in all meetings. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
mrs grapini, mr jurek, that is exactly what we are talking about. it's about fairness. if i am in charge of the meeting, you will notice that i always knock at the same time and always withdraw at the same time when necessary. i take the liberty of removing a possibility of catch-the-eye if i have withdrawn the floor from a representative of the group, because the procedure is not as spontaneous as mr jurek has said. we've had well over ten word messages, some of them have pulled right back, and then i have to make a choice. and in your case, i took the floor from a member of your group because it is uncollegial to exceed the speaking time. it's at the expense of everyone else. i did not give you the floor in the catch-the-eye procedure because you had a blue card. i cannot and do not know anything about your being removed from the list of speakers by your group. that is your group's decision. but i make the decision here as to when and to whom i give the floor in the catch-the-eye process. the agenda provides for five minutes, so five statements, that's all i can give. we cannot always have all the factions. i did not give three speeches to any group, but i gave two speeches to the two large groups. the ecr was not involved this time for the reasons already mentioned twice. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the supplementary report by mr werner langen, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on insurance mediation (recast) (com (2012) 0360 - c7-0180/2012 - 2012/0175 (cod)) (a8-0315/2015).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would like to thank all those involved who have helped to bring this larger and longer-lasting project to a successful conclusion. the commission has also been very constructive in the negotiations between the council and parliament on insurance mediation. we have taken at least three and a half years, and if, after today's adoption, the directive is implemented in all the member states in 24 months, then we have also successfully completed this aspect of financial market regulation. i would like to thank you for your work, but i would also like to mention the ten most important points. firstly, the scope of the directive, which provides for exceptions for small insurances and for intermediary services. we've been arguing about this for a long time. we have chosen a pro-rata approach and a flat rate. i think that is a reasonable way of doing things in the field of application. secondly, the registration. insurance companies are responsible for ensuring that their insurance distributors register properly. the commission will also be able to provide the necessary information to the competent authorities of the member states in order to ensure that the information is made available to the public. the third point is the qualification requirements. contrary to what some member states have advocated until recently, the qualification in the home member state is decisive for the first registration and not the one in which one has to go. but in the case of continuing training, the member state in which you are employed has a certain say. it was hotly debated. the training obligation has been slightly reduced, but better than nothing. and the member states have the opportunity to check that too. the fourth area is the prohibition of commissions, which has been sought, again from parts of parliament. there is no general prohibition on commissions or obligation to disclose the amount of remuneration. the very different structures of insurance markets have therefore given member states several possibilities to impose stricter information requirements, until the provision of prohibitions on commissions was opened up. this was a council demand which we could not refuse. the fifth point is the product information sheet, which is part of our catalogue of measures to improve consumer protection. there's been a long resistance here. the commission has also examined the possibility of a simplified product information sheet, which would be a standard format for eiopa to propose. the sixth point is product overview and management. the rules for product supervision and management have been introduced for all insurance products, following the example of the markets and financial instruments directive. the risk is that if eiopa is not restrained in this matter, it will end up as a bureaucratic instrument. seventh, investment-based insurance products. the commission has not introduced a ban on commission and an obligation to provide independent advice, but member states have the possibility to do so. the commission has also adopted rules similar to those in the markets in financial instruments directive. then we have the transitional periods, implementation in 24 months. there is a new annex which sets out the qualification requirements, knowledge for insurance mediation. and we have taken the extrajudicial dispute settlement approach that parliament has decided. overall, we have succeeded in strengthening consumer protection. we have succeeded in establishing uniform rules on the insurance market for the distribution of insurance products. i would like to thank once again all those who have taken the trouble to negotiate with the council over three years. in the end, on the last day of the latvian presidency, we managed to reach a compromise overall. thank you very much.
member of the commission.– mr president, this directive is very much part of our overall drive to increase transparency and to improve consumer protection. it is going to give citizens more choice; it will make sure that those selling insurance understand the products that they are selling, and that those buying insurance better understand what they are buying. so i am very pleased that we have reached this point today and that i have got the chance to congratulate werner langen and the shadow rapporteurs for all their hard work over many months, indeed over many years, as we have heard, in getting this proposal into shape. the directive builds on national regimes of insurance distribution. it sets out a number of minimum standards for insurance distributors to follow, and it broadens the scope of distributors covered, to include companies that sell insurance as an add-on to their core business, like travel companies or car dealers. it also gives legal certainty to insurance companies that sell their products directly to consumers by clarifying how they can register their distributors and the information that they need to give to customers. as we have heard, there are stronger requirements around training and development, and when a product is packaged with an insurance policy as part of a special offer, it will in future be possible to separate the elements of the package so that you can buy the car or the holiday you want, with or without the extra insurance. we want people to be clearer about what they are paying for when they buy or invest in an insurance product. so the directive requires greater transparency on fee structures and on any financial incentives that the distributors may have. the requirement for non-life insurance to produce a simple and standardised product information document, which was added by parliament, is a further strengthening of consumer protection. the directive also includes stronger requirements for the sale of life insurance products with investment elements. it requires suitability tests to be run to help determine whether a product fits a consumer’s profile, and because products covered by mifid ii and the idd are often interchangeable, these rules have, as far as possible, been aligned. there is one small technical point i need to mention for the record. the view of our legal service is that recital 69 of the text is not fully in line with the common understanding on delegated acts. that said, in the context of a general compromise, the commission can accept this wording because generally it does adhere to the common understanding, in accordance with which the commission will, of course, continue to act. this directive ensures a level playing field between different insurance sellers and a more consistent level of consumer protection, in particular by increasing transparency. for me, transparency is essential if we are to legislate in a manner that is proportionate and that avoids unnecessary burdens. by making the right information available, we can help consumers make the right decisions and also encourage responsible behaviour in the sector. the insurance distribution directive is, i believe, an important step in that direction, and that is why i am very pleased today to have the chance to support it. commission’s written statement the wording of the second sentence of recital 69 of the text is not fully in line with the common understanding on delegated acts because it refers to the need for appropriate contacts with parliament and council ahead of the adoption of the delegated act. in the context of a general compromise, the commission can nevertheless accept this wording because it generally adheres to the common understanding that we remain committed to upholding. the commission considers transparency in preparation of delegated acts of paramount importance. the commission will continue to act in accordance with the common understanding and particularly declaration 39 in the area of financial services.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. i would first like to thank rapporteur werner langen very warmly for his really great work, and i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs. i believe that the directive strengthens consumer protection for insurance products in the member states across all distribution channels. consumers across europe now receive a standardised briefing before buying a product, and this finally eliminates the confusion of different information sheets in the member states. this will enable consumers to compare insurance products across borders. it is not the sheer volume, not the overload of hundreds of pages, but the quality of the information and the information providers that is decisive. we are very positive that the quality requirements for intermediaries are being laid down. substantial standards of training and education for insurance intermediaries should apply in all member states. this is certainly a major advance. we want to make it possible to continue existing models of counselling in the member states. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the directive has also achieved this. at the same time, we have ensured that proportionality is maintained. the directive does not apply to microinsurance and to intermediary services. this is appropriate, because no consumer will want to have a long, comprehensive negotiation before traveling abroad for insurance of a few euros a year. as co-legislators, we have set the requirements. we now turn our attention to the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa). eiopa wanted to return to independent action, but eiopa will have to realise that the legislator is the one who sets the rules. the econ committee will certainly be watching closely how the commission and eiopa are now implementing concretisation in the sense of the co-legislators.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i've never seen anything so tough around here. i have to say, the positions were far apart. the commission had put forward a comparatively ambitious proposal. there were very different views on this report in parliament and in the council. the insurance industry has always insisted that its products are different from bank-based products, even though some of the providers and distributors are actually identical. the commission has already taken a number of steps to ensure that the directive is implemented, and i am sure that the commission will be able to do so. so for example, a form-linked life insurance is sold under different distribution rules than a mutual fund or a bundle of mutual funds. in the spirit of fair competition, this makes no sense. for example, in the case of investment funds, the commissions to consumers will have to be disclosed in future, whereas in the case of life insurance, the total cost will remain to be disclosed, even though some of the same products are sold by the same distributors. we have at least managed to achieve that a delegated act will now ensure that there will be at least similar standards. it is important that we ensure that there is a balance in the rules. so progress for more europe and stronger consumer protection. but parliament was not united in its support for uniform rules, so the council has been very much in the lead here. but it's still a step forward.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the main objective was to close the legislative gap in financial products in the insurance brokerage directive and to overcome the consequences of the fragmentation of insurance markets by the imd1. i think the second was accomplished brilliantly. a european level playing field as it is now called , to create a european regulatory framework that contributes to a unity of the market. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the consumer is protected, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his very ambitious approach. it was actually my interest, also as rapporteur for financial regulation, that we have consistency in consumer protection in financial and insurance products. i very much regret that the member states were not prepared to do so. they had given us more at mifid than they were willing to give at imd or idd, as they are now called. i would also have liked the commission to have made a more active contribution here. my concern is that we are now coming to dilution effects and substitution effects between financial products and insurance products. i don't think that was in the legislator's best interest. i'm really worried that we're going to get into some regulatory arbitrage here, and i'm very sorry about that.
member of the commission.– mr president, as we have heard, it has been a long gestation, but i think the sense of this debate is that it was worth waiting for. i think there is very broad support for this package of measures. in terms of the themes that were raised, there is a great deal of consistency around the themes of transparency and the importance of proportionality. here the regime does allow a graduated approach, with a lighter regime for some kinds of business and some businesses in ancillary services excluded altogether. in terms of the consistency between different pieces of legislation, i think we have made good progress. for instance, all the risks on sale standards are a hundred percent aligned with the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid), so that is a step forward. we talked about the importance, obviously, of consumer protection and of citizens being better able to understand risks. here again, i think we have made big steps forward. we have also talked about the necessity of making it possible for there to be innovation, particularly in the field of digital services. in that respect, later this year we will be publishing a green paper on retail financial services that will look, in particular, at the question of digital financial services and how we can make further progress there. one of the aspects on insurance that i am keen to look at as well is this question of insurance in the car rental market, where again i think we can make progress in making that market more transparent. so i think this directive will improve transparency. i am very much committed, as we go forward, to striking this right balance between protecting consumers and supporting insurance distribution. putting in place the level 2 rules for the directive is now the priority. we will work closely with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) to develop clear and workable implementing rules in line with the directive, and i know that colleagues in the parliament will help make that work a success. but for today, i really would just like to thank everyone for their contributions to this debate, and particularly mr langen and the shadow rapporteurs for all their hard work over three and a half years. it has been worth it and i think we have made some good progress here with this directive.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i want to protect the commission. mr ferber is not here now; he said that the commission had not worked constructively on all points. i disagree and would like to express my gratitude. of course, the markets have been fragmented, and to find a uniform regulation there is not so easy. we have achieved the optimum there, and for that i thank the commission. secondly, mr giegold said that the council had won. mr president, i am not going to go into the details of the amendments. we've been through the change of title together. i think that, on the whole, it is a sensible regulation and that it also meets the different needs of the differently developed markets. for example, in the context of the arrangements in the nordic countries, we have given the countries the possibility of a ban on commissions and a mandatory consultation. but mr giegold was the only one besides me who survived the change of mandate from the previous shadow rapporteurs, so that we can better observe the continuity. mr woolfe said that we must think of insurance intermediaries, small and mediumsized enterprises. he obviously didn't read the text. this was the starting point for all our efforts: not only to strengthen the large insurance companies and to fulfil their wishes, but also to support the one million independent small and medium-sized insurance intermediaries in the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. you said, commissioner hill, that the legal services had concerns. i would recall the march 2014 meeting, when the issue was to receive delegated acts in due time. mr barnier read out a communication from commission president barroso, which states that in future, irrespective of the legal situation, the commission will transmit delegated acts in sufficient time for parliament to examine them and not to overrule them. i assume, commissioner, that this rule applies to the new commission as well.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the repeal of certain acts from the schengen acquis, as i believe that it is essential to develop and update the schengen convention, especially at this time.
in writing. ‒ some of the schengen acquis acts are outdated or no longer up to date. the content of the directive has either been taken up again in other acts or has been limited in time. the commission's proposal to repeal these acts is therefore correct. this improves the clarity of existing rules.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. we support the introduction of a bureaucratic system and we voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report. i am also of the opinion that the euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe!
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. after consulting the european parliament's legal service, mr moraes also identified two other obsolete acts which are part of the schengen acquis and which are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. after consulting the european parliament's legal service, mr moraes also identified two other obsolete acts which are part of the schengen acquis and which are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. after consulting the european parliament's legal service, mr moraes also identified two other obsolete acts which are part of the schengen acquis and which are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ a number of the developments in the schengen acquis identified in the report do not in fact represent a 'development' in the sense of a full-fledged border regime for the eu member states, but rather a hollowing out, for example where the implementation of the 'schengen acquis' is entrusted to the european border guard agency frontex, which has been shown to be completely overburdened. i therefore see no reason to abolish the rules originally codified in the schengen agreement.
in writing. ‒ acts which are no longer useful can be repealed in good conscience. that is why i voted for this resolution. several acts of the schengen acquis are no longer relevant because they have either been ignored by national governments anyway, were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. this includes the following areas: visa policy, exchange of statistical information, issuing of schengen visas, evidence under readmission agreements, task force, difficulties in obtaining laissez-passer, stamping of passports, combating illegal immigration, document consultants, liaison officers and sis ii checks. i don't have much faith in the eu and its institutions that oversee the schengen acquis, and the current asylum crisis shows that we can't trust political institutions. the german chancellor angela merkel (cdu) has also knowingly broken eu law with regard to the schengen acquis and provoked the current asylum crisis. why should we vote on legislation when the cdu-csu-spd-led federal government is ignoring these eu legislation anyway?
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the repeal of certain acts of the schengen acquis in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as i believe that the schengen convention must be developed and updated, especially at this time.
in writing. ‒ some of the schengen acquis acts in the area of police and judicial cooperation are outdated or no longer up to date. either its content has been taken up again in other acts or it is limited in time. the commission's proposal to repeal these acts is therefore correct. this improves the clarity of existing rules.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation. i voted for it. i am also of the opinion that the euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe!
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. after consulting the european parliament's legal service, mr moraes also identified two other obsolete acts which are part of the schengen acquis and which are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. after consulting the european parliament's legal service, mr moraes also identified two other obsolete acts which are part of the schengen acquis and which are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. claude moraes also identified two other obsolete acts, after consulting the legal service of the european parliament, which are part of the schengen acquis and are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ a number of the developments in the schengen acquis listed in the report do not in fact constitute 'developments' in the sense of efficient police and judicial cooperation between eu member states. there is therefore no reason to abolish the rules originally codified in the schengen agreement, especially since the current development of the eu also implies that the level of european integration already achieved cannot be maintained permanently.
in writing. ‒ acts from the schengen acquis in the area of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which are no longer useful or are not fully implemented in any case can be repealed in good conscience. that is why i voted for this resolution. these acts are now repealed: decision sch/com-ex (93) 14 (combating illicit trafficking in narcotic drugs), decision sch/com ex (97) 13 rev. 2 (abduction of minors), decision sch/com-ex (98) 52 (guidelines on crossborder police cooperation), decision sch/com-ex (99) 11, rev. 2 (violations of traffic rules) and decision 2008/173/jha (sis ii checks).
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the repeal of certain acts in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, as i believe that the schengen convention must be developed and updated, especially at this time.
in writing. ‒ some of the schengen acquis acts in the area of police and judicial cooperation are outdated or no longer up to date. either its content has been taken up again in other acts or it is limited in time. the commission's proposal to repeal these acts is therefore correct. it improves the clarity of existing rules.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. after consulting the european parliament's legal service, mr moraes also identified two other obsolete acts which are part of the schengen acquis and which are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. after consulting the european parliament's legal service, mr moraes also identified two other obsolete acts which are part of the schengen acquis and which are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ the commission has proposed in three decisions to repeal acts belonging to the schengen acquis because they were either limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in subsequent acts. the aim is to achieve better regulation by achieving greater transparency of union law. in this context, the rapporteur, mr claude moraes, believes that it is appropriate to remove from the existing acquis those acts which are no longer useful. the commission proposes to achieve this by means of three decisions. the rapporteur recommends that the type of act be changed from a decision to a regulation, unlike the commission. after consulting the european parliament's legal service, mr moraes also identified two other obsolete acts which are part of the schengen acquis and which are no longer relevant because they were limited in time or were incorporated in terms of content in later acts. the cor supports the refit programme in terms of its reduction of red tape and has also voted in the libe committee for the repeal of obsolete legislation. alfa is for legal certainty and legal clarity. the measures proposed in the reports are designed to reduce the number of eu regulations and simplify union law. i fully support these concerns and have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ some of the developments in the schengen acquis listed in the report do not in fact represent 'developments' in the sense of efficient police and judicial cooperation between eu member states. there is therefore no reason to abolish the rules originally codified in the schengen agreement, especially since the current development of the eu also implies that the level of european integration already achieved cannot be maintained permanently.
in writing. ‒ legislation in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters which is no longer useful must be repealed. that is why i voted for this resolution. the following acts are hereby repealed: joint action 96/610/jha (register of skills and expertise in the field of counter-terrorism), joint action 96/699/jha (compilation of chemical profiles of drugs), joint action 96/747/jha (register of skills and expertise in the field of organised crime), joint action 96/750/jha (combating drug addiction and trafficking), joint action 97/339/jha (cooperation in the field of public policy and security), joint action 97/372/jha (cooperation between customs authorities), joint action 98/c 216/01 and the council convention of 17 june 1998 (driving licences), joint action 98/427/jha (application of best practices in legal assistance in criminal matters) in the framework of the european regulation (jha) no 2008/978. these specific joint actions have not been abolished per se but have already been incorporated into other legal texts. but why does the eu have to regulate the withdrawal of driving licences for all member states?
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for a decision to join the enlarged commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna, as i consider the conservation of this species in our waters to be an important contribution of europe to biodiversity. per capita consumption of fish is increasing by one to two percent each year. in addition, the number of people is growing by well over one percent a year. so humanity is demanding two to three percent more fish on the table every year. all species of bluefin tuna are on the iucn red list. the southern species is classified as 'endangered', the atlantic and mediterranean species as 'highly endangered', and the pacific bluefin tuna has been classified as 'vulnerable' since last november. this has to be stopped.
in writing. ‒ this decision is a coherent continuation of the objectives of a sustainable policy. the protection of highly migratory species is a particular challenge. this is why it is important that countries have a strong exchange of ideas. the problem of illegal fishing must continue to be addressed. the enlarged commission will give europe greater responsibility in this area.
in writing. ‒ the southern bluefin tuna (thunnus maccoyii) resolution is not about the reciprocal exchange of best-practice recipes for sushi and sashimi, but about another regulation of the eu's external fisheries relations to protect the most overfished tuna species in the world. since this problem cannot understandably be solved by a single member state alone, a common eu position makes sense. that is why i voted for it. the eu commission is already involved in six regional tuna fisheries organisations. the eu is now becoming a full member of the 'expanded commission of the convention for the conservation of southern bluefin tuna (ccsbt) '. this resolution gives the green light to that. the signature of this international instrument will enable the eu to become a full member of the enlarged ccsbt commission, of which it has been a non-cooperating member since 2006. however, it remains to be seen how and whether the eu can assert its legitimate demands against the permanent overfishing of tuna, especially against japan. and then we will wait and see when the house of lords will table a resolution calling for an eu-wide ban on tuna consumption.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because the new rules on insurance distribution will bring much more clarity, transparency and legal certainty, not only to consumers but also to small insurance agencies, through better information. this also applies to the costs of remunerating insurance intermediaries. the commission also notes that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. i support the introduction of the single product sheet, because it will enable consumers to compare the basic information of different insurance products in other member states, as is already the case with other financial products.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on insurance mediation (idd) because i support the approach and have given my group a lot of impetus to make it more consumer-friendly. with the idd, the rules on insurance intermediation now apply to all market participants who sell insurance, including for example travel agencies and car rental companies, unless they are 'micro insurance'. in addition, insurance undertakings must provide customers with information on the type of remuneration received by their employees for the distribution of insurance products and, for certain complex life insurance products, also on the total cost of the insurance contract, including consultancy and service costs. it's good for the consumer.
in writing. ‒ with today's report, we are increasing transparency for consumers. at the same time, it ensures that in particular smaller insurance companies will enjoy greater legal certainty in the future. the accessibility of crossborder insurance schemes will also be improved. it allows customers to compare the performance of individual suppliers more easily and quickly.
in writing. ‒ the insurance mediation directive proposal has now been agreed in trilogue with council. it covers sales of general insurance products and takes into account the whole distribution chain. the directive’s approach is geared towards minimum harmonisation, which means that the member states would have enough flexibility to continue with existing practices. this directive includes enhanced information about prices and costs of products, the indication of whether the seller has an incentive or receives a commission for selling a product and the introduction of a standardised product information document for non-life insurance products, aiming to give consumers key elements in a standard format to help them make an informed decision. since many of the problematic elements (such as the requirements for professional development, which were subsequently set at a more proportionate 15 hours a year, and the possibility to unbundle a product from its insurance) were resolved during trilogue, i voted in favour of the report. by the way, in my opinion, the euro must be abolished: it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on reducing inequalities today, with a particular focus on child poverty, because the non-legislative own-initiative report - despite some good approaches - clearly oversteps its target in many areas, disregards the rights of parents and breaches subsidiarity. i am fully in favour of children's rights, but i am equally convinced that this must be done at the appropriate political levels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is therefore a very good one. children need action, not words.
in writing. ‒ child poverty is still a sad reality in europe. we must be firm in our opposition. children are the future of our ageing society. i therefore welcome this report and will continue to work to reduce social inequalities and to ensure that education is accessible to all.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the own-initiative report by mrs zuber on reducing inequalities, with a particular focus on child poverty, because the report - despite some good approaches - clearly oversteps its target in many areas, disregards the rights of parents and breaches subsidiarity. i am fully in favour of children's rights, but i am equally convinced that this must be done at the appropriate political levels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is therefore a very good one. children need action, not words. i am also of the opinion that the euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe!
in writing. i consider this report to be a very important initiative of parliament. much more attention needs to be paid to the issue of child poverty. children in europe are increasingly at risk of poverty and social exclusion. statistics show that a quarter of all children in the eu experience poverty and social exclusion. in 2013, 26.5 million children were at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and since 2008, two thirds of eu member states have experienced an increase in child poverty. we must counteract this. childhood poverty can have lifelong effects. children who grow up in poverty are at greater risk of being poor as adults. every child should have the opportunity to reach their full potential. but we must also be careful not to go too far in our efforts to identify and tackle the causes of child poverty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the promotion of flexible working relationships in my view does not in any way lead to a weakening of the social rights of children (§ 10); i cannot agree to the right to adequate and appropriate housing (article 18); nor can i support a guaranteed right of women to sexual and reproductive health (§ 38).
in writing. ‒ i voted against the rapporteur's non-legislative own-initiative report on reducing inequality with a particular focus on child poverty, as the report - despite some good approaches - clearly oversteps its target in many areas, disregards the rights of parents and breaches subsidiarity. i am fully in favour of children's rights, but i am equally convinced that this must be done at the appropriate political levels. i therefore reject the empty proposal to create a 'european child guarantee'. children need action, not words.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the non-legislative own-initiative report by mrs zuber on reducing inequality, with particular emphasis on child poverty, as the report - despite some good approaches - goes beyond its objective in many areas, disregards the rights of parents and breaches subsidiarity. i am fully in favour of children's rights, but i am equally convinced that this must be done at the appropriate political levels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is therefore a very good one. children need action, not words. the report also contains many good proposals, which i would not wish to interfere with. that explains my vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the non-legislative own-initiative report by mrs zuber on reducing inequality, with a particular focus on child poverty, because the report - despite some good approaches - clearly oversteps its target in many areas, disregards the rights of parents and breaches subsidiarity. i am fully in favour of children's rights, but i am equally convinced that this must be done at the appropriate political levels. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is therefore a very good one. children need action, not words.
in writing. ‒ 2010 was a eu year to fight poverty and social exclusion nothing but expense. in fact, there is no need for an owninitiative reporting procedure to combat child poverty in the eu. who wants children to live in poverty? no one did. i'm not either. but words are politics and words make politics. that is why, under the pretext of combating child poverty, this resolution contains above all those elements of communist control of society which i do not support at all. the fight against child poverty must not be promoted by the eu through unfair means. this includes the extensive eu intervention in the wage policies of the member states or the extensive eu intervention in national social policies with demands to increase large social benefits free of charge without any consideration. of course, the right to abortion is not lacking either. the children of the poorest are also too much for feminists. the 'self-responsibility' is not mentioned once in the whole resolution. but is it not more effective to strengthen the role of fathers and mothers and their responsibility for their children than to lead the eu to fall back into state socialism? in the bundestag, the positions of the old parties on this important issue would be nuanced. in strasbourg, however, the left votes in unison with the cdu/csu, spd, fdp and the greens.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the non-legislative own-initiative report on cohesion policy and marginalised groups today, because such a document makes no sense when it is published less than a year after all the eu's long-term financial plans have been adopted. the report also misses the point on many points: the eu cannot and must not try to solve everything by taking on more and more power. many problems - particularly in cohesion policy - require adapted regulation at national, regional and local level. that is subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ cohesion policy is one of the main european instruments for reducing social inequalities in different regions of europe. the problem of social exclusion has increased in the wake of the economic crisis. it is unacceptable that some groups of the population continue to lack adequate access to existing infrastructure and sanitation facilities. i therefore welcome the fact that this report is being used to promote greater social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report recommends changes in the eu's cohesion policy. this eu policy area accounts for more than one third of the total eu budget and aims to reduce economic and social inequalities in europe and thus strengthen social cohesion. the report calls for greater attention to be paid to supporting marginalised groups in society, in particular roma communities and the needs of women. the commission has also been active in the field of employment policy, and has been involved in the preparation of the white paper on growth and employment. as the report itself points out, the legal basis for cohesion policy already contains a number of provisions to support marginalised groups in society. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is the responsibility of the eu member states to implement these requirements in the context of operational programmes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states. i therefore voted against the report. i am also of the opinion that the euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe!
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report by terry reintke (greens) recommends changes to the eu's cohesion policy. this eu policy area accounts for more than one third of the total eu budget and aims to reduce economic and social inequalities in europe and thus strengthen social cohesion. the report calls for greater attention to be paid to supporting marginalised groups in society, in particular roma communities and the needs of women. the commission has also been active in the field of employment policy, and has been involved in the preparation of the white paper on growth and employment. as the report itself points out, the legal basis for cohesion policy already contains a number of provisions to support marginalised groups in society. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is the responsibility of the eu member states to implement these requirements in the context of operational programmes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report by terry reintke (greens) recommends changes to the eu's cohesion policy. this eu policy area accounts for more than one third of the total eu budget and aims to reduce economic and social inequalities in europe and thus strengthen social cohesion. the report calls for greater attention to be paid to supporting marginalised groups in society, in particular roma communities and the needs of women. the commission has also been active in the field of employment policy, and has been involved in the preparation of the white paper on growth and employment. as the report itself points out, the legal basis for cohesion policy already contains a number of provisions to support marginalised groups in society. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is the responsibility of the eu member states to implement these requirements in the context of operational programmes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report by terry reintke (greens) recommends changes to the eu's cohesion policy. this eu policy area accounts for more than one third of the total eu budget and aims to reduce economic and social inequalities in europe and thus strengthen social cohesion. the report calls for greater attention to be paid to supporting marginalised groups in society, in particular roma communities and the needs of women. the commission has also been active in the field of employment policy, and has been involved in the preparation of the white paper on growth and employment. as the report itself points out, the legal basis for cohesion policy already contains a number of provisions to support marginalised groups in society. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is the responsibility of the eu member states to implement these requirements in the context of operational programmes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report by reintke (greens) recommends changes to the eu's cohesion policy. this eu policy area accounts for more than one third of the total eu budget and aims to reduce economic and social inequalities in europe and thus strengthen social cohesion. the report calls for greater attention to be paid to supporting marginalised groups in society, in particular roma communities and the needs of women. the commission has also been active in the field of employment policy, and has been involved in the preparation of the white paper on growth and employment. as the report itself points out, the legal basis for cohesion policy already contains a number of provisions to support marginalised groups in society. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is the responsibility of the eu member states to implement these requirements in the context of operational programmes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states. i therefore voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the draft european resolution on 'cohesion policy and marginalised groups' because i think it is a mockery to want to pursue minority policy while the european peoples are facing the asylum crisis with their backs to the wall. the eu's first concern is the preservation of europe, its cultures and its peoples, not any minorities, many of whom are - as in the case of many so-called 'refugees' - de facto wealth migrants.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament is the 'announcing body'. an entire resolution deals with political guidelines for cohesion policy for the benefit of the most marginalised groups in society. however, the same resolution states at the outset that there is no definition of the term 'social marginalised group'. the first paragraph calls on the european commission to provide guidelines for the definition of the term 'social marginalised groups', which does not yet exist. this is a parliamentary nonsense which wastes taxpayers' money and does not provide practical solutions to problems. that is why i voted against this resolution. if there are indeed problems with hitherto undefined social marginal groups in regions of the member states, then these regions of the member states are also best placed to find and implement appropriate solutions but not the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because, particularly in view of the existing and new security policy challenges (refugee issue, is), we cannot find solutions in the eu alone and in isolation. it requires a common solution of all the states. only together with the united nations will we be able to promote peace, security and progress in the world and in europe. the eu must therefore play a more important role within the general assembly.
in writing. ‒ i am opposed today to the non-legislative own-initiative report on the subject 'the role of the eu within the united nations: how can the eu's foreign policy objectives be better achieved? voted in favour of the resolution, as i believe that the approach taken there is wrong in terms of strengthening the eu's role in the un. i believe that we need more pragmatic action, rather than ideological positions, to achieve more in the world.
in writing. ‒ many european challenges need to be solved internationally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this requires a stronger eu positioning within the un. comprehensive reforms are also needed to meet the new challenges of a changing world.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report aims to clearly define the role of the european union within the united nations. the eu is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights. the report rightly points out that the security council urgently needs to be reformed in order to maintain its capacity to act effectively, as in its current composition it does not represent a geographically balanced representation of interests but still reflects the geopolitical conditions of 1945. i am in favour of germany's permanent seat on the security council, because today, as the third largest contributor to the united nations, germany has considerably less influence on the united nations and in particular on the security council than the five veto powers. further reforms of the united nations are also needed. however, the report calls for a permanent seat for the eu in the security council, even though the eu is not a state but an international organisation and as such cannot be a member of the united nations under the current rules. that is why i rejected the report. i am also of the opinion that the euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe!
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report by paavo väyrynen (epp) aims to clearly define the role of the european union within the united nations. the eu is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights. the report rightly points out that the security council urgently needs to be reformed in order to maintain its capacity to act effectively, as in its current composition it does not represent a geographically balanced representation of interests but still reflects the geopolitical conditions of 1945. i am in favour of germany's permanent seat on the security council, because today, as the third largest contributor to the united nations, germany has considerably less influence on the united nations and in particular on the security council than the five veto powers. further reforms of the united nations are also needed. however, the report calls for a permanent seat for the eu in the security council, even though the eu is not a state but an international organisation and as such cannot be a member of the united nations under the current rules. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report by paavo väyrynen (epp) aims to clearly define the role of the european union within the united nations. the eu is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights. the report rightly points out that the security council urgently needs to be reformed in order to maintain its capacity to act effectively, as in its current composition it does not represent a geographically balanced representation of interests but still reflects the geopolitical conditions of 1945. i am in favour of germany's permanent seat on the security council, because today, as the third largest contributor to the united nations, germany has considerably less influence on the united nations and in particular on the security council than the five veto powers. further reforms of the united nations are also needed. however, the report calls for a permanent seat for the eu in the security council, even though the eu is not a state but an international organisation and as such cannot be a member of the united nations under the current rules. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the own-initiative report by paavo väyrynen (epp) aims to clearly define the role of the european union within the united nations. the eu is also committed to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and to the promotion of the rule of law and respect for human rights. the report rightly points out that the security council urgently needs to be reformed in order to maintain its capacity to act effectively, as in its current composition it does not represent a geographically balanced representation of interests but still reflects the geopolitical conditions of 1945. i am in favour of germany's permanent seat on the security council, because today, as the third largest contributor to the united nations, germany has considerably less influence on the united nations and in particular on the security council than the five veto powers. further reforms of the united nations are also needed. however, the report calls for a permanent seat for the eu in the security council, even though the eu is not a state but an international organisation and as such cannot be a member of the united nations under the current rules. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ the report weakens the voice of european member states at the un in favour of out-of-touch eu institutions. the eu cannot award high positions on the basis of quota rules, but only on the basis of merit and qualifications.
in writing. - why call the moon? the european parliament acts as the "notification body". that is why i reject this resolution. the eu is already represented at the united nations by a wide range of actors: the president of the european council, the 'eu foreign minister', the european commission. the member states have their permanent representatives, two of whom (france and the united kingdom) are also permanent members of the security council with the right of veto. the treaty already obliges the member states to coordinate their positions and actions in all international fora. the european union has already de facto abolished its own responsibility for foreign policy and the design of its relations with the un system. i reject the idea that the eu should speak and decide in place of the 28 member states, and in the medium term even replace france and the united kingdom on the security council. this is a problem that is both a blank check and a potential source of division between the member states.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. equal treatment for all is the central issue, not only in the question of speaking time but also, of course, in the question of tax payments. we find that no, there is no fair tax competition. unfortunately, the revelations that were made by investigative journalists last year in the wake of the luxleaks scandal have revealed that some - and not just a few, but many, especially international - companies are able to exploit tax loopholes. they have aggressive tax avoidance models that result in them reducing their tax burden greatly. the figures on the table are worrying, when disney, for example, can reduce its tax burden to 0.3% on a billion-dollar profit, when, conversely, it is clear to the british house of commons, for example, that facebook paid only £5,000 in corporation tax in 2014, less than the average facebook employee, who earns £26,500 and has to pay £5,393 in income tax, including insurance. it's not fair. the competitive disadvantage for small and medium-sized enterprises is particularly significant. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has been informed by scientists that smes are at a disadvantage of 20 to 25% compared with large companies. it was therefore necessary for this parliament to set up the special committee, as i proposed here a year ago. we worked hard. we were in luxembourg, belgium, the netherlands, ireland, but also in the uk and outside the eu in switzerland. we have also invited representatives from so-called tax havens. we talked extensively with the ngos and the tax experts from independent institutes, universities, and we wanted to hear from the corporations as well. unfortunately, it took a very long time for the international corporations facebook, google, amazon, hsbc and barclays to even be willing to come into our parliament. we should all agree that such disregard for parliament must not be allowed to recur in the future. we have to be united here. we have drawn up a whole series of proposals on how we can achieve fairer tax competition in the future. the combination of 28 national tax laws creates loopholes which a few - and above all large international corporations - have been able to exploit. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the information exchange between member states. i repeat once again that what has just been agreed does not meet our expectations. the exchange of information should have gone further. we also propose a common consolidated corporate tax base. we propose that the oecd recommendations in the beps project be implemented in a common eu directive as a way of making this binding. if it is implemented nationally, loopholes are likely to be inevitable. then, it should be ensured that no profit leaves the eu without being taxed once here double taxation agreements have to be taken into account. we are asking the commission to define economic substance clearly and we are asking for a reform of the code of conduct working party, which needs political responsibility. ladies and gentlemen, we have made good progress with this report, but there is still a lot to be done. the question of political responsibility has not yet been settled, and it is a great scandal that this parliament is still being denied documents by the member states and the commission. i therefore urge that we take democratic control seriously. we as a directly elected parliament should now have full access to the documents requested. i therefore also call for the work of the taxe committee to be continued.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i should like to begin by thanking our two rapporteurs, mrs ferreira and mr theurer, and also our committee chairman, mr lamassoure, for allowing us to discuss today a report which has brought together the breadth of parliament in its different positions to a result which impressively demonstrates the extent to which this parliament is prepared to take up the fight against state-organized tax dumping, to support the commission's fight against the granting of unfair competitive advantages to individual member states by multinational companies, which favour these small companies, mediumsized companies, and the ordinary taxpayer. we want to continue to work on this on the basis of this report, which we will be voting on tomorrow in the plenary. we want to see that the member states do not shirk their responsibilities. we want them to share with the commission the things we are asking for, for example, an automatic exchange of information on tax rulings on multinational companies. the european commission is the guardian of the treaties. the european commission must be enabled to do this. we support the commission in this, but we also expect the commission to support us in our future work. i would therefore like to point out once again, in view of the work of the coming months, that there are a number of documents which we have not yet seen, that there are a number of documents where we know there is still a dispute as to whether we are entitled to them. i am grateful for the constructive attitude in the past. we hope to have one in the future. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fight against state-organized tax dumping is only now really beginning! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this committee has shown over the past six months that it knows how to request everything necessary for its work as regards the request for materials, as regards the participation of individuals, as regards the participation of companies. we'll be doing the same for the next six months. we're committed to the cause, that's all.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. a year ago, a brave young man, antoine deltour, went public with luxleaks, or the tax deals of corporations with luxembourg. deltour now faces five years in prison, while juncker has become president of the european commission. but juncker is right: luxleaks should be called eu-leaks. we are losing up to hundreds of billions of euros a year through these tax tricks, while the patrons of the tax cartel, mr juncker or euro group president dijsselbloem, are overwhelming the population in the eu with cuts. and it's also true that in tax havens, banks also launder the money of criminals. the islamic state is not parked its oil billions under a pillow in syria either. neither the commission nor the council could say whether any of the measures required by the un to combat terrorist financing had been implemented in the eu. the drying up of tax havens and sanctions against banks which facilitate money laundering and tax evasion is therefore not only a matter of justice but also of security. the committee - we would have liked to have had a real committee of inquiry - has come up against an omerta, a wall of silence. documents were refused or denigrated by the commission and the member states. that is why my group will be taking this matter to the european court of justice. the public has a right to know the truth. we have new insights into how juncker and dijsselbloem, for luxembourg and the netherlands, defended the tax tricks in patent boxes to the teeth. they can no longer hide behind small officials, nor can the finance ministers of large member states - like my home country of germany - who are silent because domestic corporations are profiting. juncker also lied to parliament about a secret page of the krecké report. you must now answer to the people here. are you prepared to call mr juncker and mr dijsselbloem back to the chamber, yes or no? the former chief of staff of the u.s. senate permanent subcommittee on investigations told me how they grilled the board of goldman sachs for eight hours. she was disturbed by the european parliament's weakness in its attitude towards the corporations. we also need a permanent committee of inquiry with sanctions instruments against corporations. my group has been able to incorporate many positive elements in the report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the tax administration of the member states, such as the impact of the austerity dictates on tax collection, the extension of the list of tax havens to include eu member states in country-by-country reporting, and so on and so forth. but that's not enough. the exchange of information on tax rulings must be public, as in the usa and even in belgium. the finance ministers have been sitting on their hands and knees. the profits of corporations must be immediately determined for corporation tax throughout the eu. we cannot continue to shift profits across borders. every policeman in the village knows that you can't write a report until all the evidence has been evaluated and the perpetrators have been named. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the investigation must continue. the taxpayers in europe have a right to it. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and especially our committee chairman, alain lamassoure, for the work they have done over the last 12 months. i would like to say very clearly at the outset that the epp has no understanding when it comes to tolerating tax evasion and tax fraud. i can't do that! the european parliament is calling for a stronger voice on european tax coordination, and rightly so. it cannot be that small and medium-sized enterprises pay their full tax rate for the common good, but large corporations spend their money only on tax consultants. the member states - and i would also like to see a council representative here today - have not done their homework in recent years. they exchanged little or no information and thought only of their own tax pot. it is therefore absolutely overdue for the commission to make new attempts on these issues. the commission's proposal for a directive on the harmonization of the taxation of turnover taxes is a very important one. we must also keep an eye on the international level. the oecd is doing a very important and helpful job here. it would certainly not look good for europe if we were to impose on european companies requirements and reporting obligations that their global competitors do not have to meet to a similar degree. we should therefore continue to support the work of the oecd.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. before the law, everyone is equal. but we have found through the work of investigative journalists that there are also companies in the european union that are not getting the right that everyone should have, but their individual tax law. they are given the interpretation of tax law that allows them to reduce their tax burden, in some cases to the bare minimum, while other companies have to bear the normal full tax burden. this is clearly a distortion of competition. this is a matter for the internal market, and it is right that the european union, that the european parliament, has taken action here and tried to shed light on this darkness and confusion in the form of this committee of inquiry. the committee of inquiry itself, it must be said, was a weak committee of inquiry. i hope that in the extension he will get more instruments than what he had previously at his disposal. the way in which we could interview the representatives of companies and the representatives of tax administrations or of parliaments was weak and almost a farce. the example just given of grilling a representative for eight hours is something we should also think about. but we must also ensure that the commission makes use of the instruments at its disposal. of the more than 500 tax cases now known to investigative journalists in luxembourg alone, hardly any have been investigated a total of just 65 since 1991. that's not enough. we have the commission's sharp sword of competition law. the commission should also take advantage of this. if she can't use it, she should be reinforced.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have put forward a strong and good report here, and the best part of it is that there is broad agreement in this house that we need strong action. despite differences on many issues, a long list of possible measures has now been presented here for both the member states and the eu as a whole. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive. parliament was strong in proposing the necessary common tax policies. parliament has so far been weak in its representation of who is really responsible for this tax scandal. this responsibility still needs to be established. there must be no pressure here, but the citizens of the eu have a right to know who bears the political responsibility for hundreds of billions in tax losses. those who are responsible, both in the member states and in the commission, must explain their responsibilities to this parliament. it also contains some interesting proposals, commissioner moscovici. there is now the new line of tax havens that say: we are now implementing beps, but please do not take another step in the eu! you said you wanted to move on. i think there are two proposals which are particularly exciting. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the distortions of competition. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. and finally, make sure that even in bilateral tax treaties no income can be taxed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by joining the ranks of those who wish to thank the members, and in particular the rapporteurs, for the work they have done. but i would also like to make a critical point that many of the things that were stated in the mandate have not been achieved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and there are a number of errors. i find it regrettable that the committee has also focused on one country, even though there are many little sinners in the european union. why, for example, has the dutch finance minister never been consulted, why the irish one, why only the former luxembourg one, to describe a problem? i also ask the commission: what has the commission done in recent years - we have now made new legislation for tax rulings - to bring the broken system that was decided to exist into existence? that is another question that has never been answered. on the other hand, we're now taking more care of whistleblowers and things like that, and we have to be careful that we don't overburden small and medium-sized businesses with wrong regulation. so i really wonder if we have fulfilled our mandate. i hope that when the time comes for the extension, we will be able to really tackle the issues that are worth tackling. we have to look a little deeper than what we have been given.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the co-rapporteur, elisa ferreira, very much. a liberal writer and a social democratic writer have submitted a text which has provided a good basis for discussions with the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups. we are grateful for the suggestions which have been made clear in the debate today. yeah, we need to do a better job of protecting whistleblowers. that was the most moving moment, when we had the poor people on the committee, who have to suffer personal disadvantages for representing the common good here. it's got to be different in the future. the report also includes a simpler tax system, as recommended by the oecd with low rates , and the mandatory implementation of the oecd recommendations. it is not true that the european parliament or the commission prevented member states from combating tax evasion. no, the member states have not been able to solve it on their own in the past. that is why we need a european solution. the dispute settlement is also proposed. these are all valid and important proposals. we need more time, though. the hearing of the companies came too late, too little time. the interrogation procedure is also wrong. we should make the hearing procedure like the commissioner's hearings. the documents are also incomplete and it was not possible to consult the files in full. three hours for 800 pages, many of them in black. that is not the way to work, and parliament should not tolerate that. we are directly elected, we must have democratic control. the citizens were concerned by the revelations of the luxleaks affair and they expect clarification from this parliament. this is where we should be together. together we can make a difference, and that is why i hope that tomorrow we will also get a broad, cross-party majority for our report, so that we can then go out with a strong signal and say: member states, you are now called upon, let us make fair tax competition in europe! let us abolish tax dumping once and for all!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the budgetary perspective now provides for commitment appropriations of eur 155 billion and payments of eur 144 billion, following negotiations in the conciliation committee. the reductions proposed by the council were thus avoided. many colleagues from the other groups regard this result as a great success. i do not share that view. the draft does indeed provide for an increased budgetary approach to the uncontrollable migration and refugee crisis, and this is both right and important. but it is even more important that we finally develop a coherent approach to this area, which the member states will then also respect. we simply allocate more money without knowing how to solve these problems in a sustainable way. we must work to help the people who live in europe, but also those who want to come to us. we need a concept for that. money alone will not solve these problems, it will not solve this crisis. my party has developed a comprehensive approach here, and we should work together on a solution on this basis. regardless, it's a short step to respond to crises by simply wanting more money. crises are also ideal times to pause and review a budget. what worked, what didn't work? let us take the cohesion policy. it is intended to help regions to improve their competitiveness. we must ask ourselves: has this result been achieved? and if we see from the example of greece that this is not the case, then we must draw the right conclusions from it, but not just leave the budget lines as they are. in this way, the budget will increase with each crisis. that is why we must counter this, and this is clearly seen here: the euro is damaging europe, it does not unite europe, it divides it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to welcome you in particular, madam vice-president georgieva and mr minister gramegna. you were sorely missed in this circle, particularly in the last debate on the report of the special committee on luxleaks. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to personally congratulate my colleagues josé manuel fernandes and gérard deprez on their excellent reports. many government representatives have called for the european union budget to do more to tackle the refugee crisis. i think we have now done almost everything that the eu budget can do. in category 4, foreign policy, we have mobilised all the money up to the ceiling of the medium-term financial framework to eliminate the causes of flight. in category 3, in domestic policy, the same. in addition, we have exceeded the ceiling by mobilising the flexibility instrument. this is a measure which the council has so far shunned like the devil shunned holy water. the presidency has supported us, but the council of finance ministers has not been so supportive. the european council is calling for more action, but the council of finance ministers is resisting it. i call this policy schizophrenic. i'm sure we have a good 2016 budget now. the socialist group will therefore vote in favour of the budget.
mr president, commissioner, minister, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner and her team very warmly for their excellent cooperation and, above all, for their openness, also on the subject of agencies - substantial changes on the subject of fee-paying agencies - or for making a difference to the other agencies, which are not financed by fees, and also for finding solutions for the future so that we do not impair our economy in terms of competitiveness. first of all, i would like to thank you very much for your openness and your openness. secondly, i would like to thank the presidency for the good joint conclusions we have reached. everyone still has wishes on their side. but i think we have a respectable result here that we can really compete with in public. i would also like to thank the rapporteurs, especially mr fernandes and mr deprez, who have done a great job over many months. if i have open desires, i say them openly, i express them openly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the second is horizon 2020. i think that the success of the research programmes in a number of areas would be good for us - after having set ourselves the objective of supporting growth, jobs and innovation - to show ourselves even more active in this area or to give it a priority in the mff. and the third point will be on security and migration, on which we are certainly not finished, but we must have an intensive dialogue with each other, including on development aid, how we can incorporate it into the budget in the medium term and how we can make sense of it in the mff.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of radicalisation, including the introduction of a new system of 'social security' for the elderly. this means that the so-called soft factors must be taken into account as much as the hard measures. so, the so-called soft factors, for me, are essentials like interfaith dialogue, intercultural dialogue. i say this to us, quite openly: invite muslims so that they are not excluded, so that young people who are muslims feel at home and are integrated. on the other hand, it must also be clear that hate speech and calls for crimes which include, for example, the punishment of women, which is nothing but beating women, which is a violation of human rights or calls for murder and massacre or the internet sites or the threats or the salafist scenes that captivate and indoctrinate young people and undergo a real brainwashing so that they no longer feel any empathy, no longer have any sense of what their environment is ... we must protect young people from being drawn into the spell of such dangers and extremists. we also need more research on this. there is far too little research on how young people can fall prey to such dangers. it's definitely not just poverty, but there were engineers among them, there were people from the best of society among them, and yet they became dangerous and terrorists and went to syria. these are factors that we have to address, even if we want to avoid radicalisation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 169 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i decided i understood the question. i wouldn't follow every headline that spreads substantial nonsense. it is essential that we work with reliable data and facts. that's why i was just talking to the research. it is also essential that we not only denigrate muslims in general and in a blanket way, but that we distinguish very clearly between the muslim faith and the terrorists who misuse islam as a title. that means we have to make very clear distinctions and also make them clear in our reasoning towards those who are potentially at risk.
i have to say, madam president, mrs dati has presented a report on radicalisation and recruitment by terrorist organisations. do you know what it's like to wake up in the dark, not see your hand in front of your eyes, and yet be too comfortable to turn on the light? that's a bit like this report. he talks about education and training, about internet surveillance and terrorist financing. but there's one thing missing: the light won't turn on. the report does not even mention that the west is also fuelling radicalisation because it has been intervening in the islamic world for many years. every bomb we drop there will fuel more hatred! isis and its followers are monsters, but the west has also raised them. we can't be comfortable with ourselves. we have to turn on the lights. we cannot talk about radicalization without also talking about western interventions in the middle east.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to express my regret that the misanthropic racists on the right in this house equate 1.7 billion muslims with terrorists. this is not only factually incorrect, but also extremely poor. the debate is about preventing radicalisation, and i think we should certainly be mindful of the mistakes of the past, but also think about the future. i think that one important aspect -- and i'll call it social empathy -- is ultimately critical, and it means that we have to give recognition and acceptance to those members of society in their individuality as well. i think that the appreciation of the cultural background is crucial. the society that ultimately cannot do this is automatically marginalised, and a strong society must be able to do without prohibitions. we must therefore take a firm stance against hostility - both towards terrorists and racists - and all the points that have been mentioned are good steps in the right direction. but we should not forget that we are dealing with people who, with the growing empathy of the majority society, will in turn regard the countries where they grew up and were raised as their own.
mr president, we want the european steel industry to have a sustainable future, but it is obviously just not good enough for the commission to say it will try to come back with some solutions, without even mentioning the core fact that we have vast overcapacity in europe in the steel sector. we need to deal with that. it would be counterproductive – in fact the steel industry would be biting one of the few hands that can feed it – if it were seduced by certain conservatives to go against climate policy, because only investment in infrastructure and the transformation of our economies can provide new uses for steel. the austerity policies are much more destructive than energy prices. finally, we can have anti-dumping measures that are compatible with world trade organization rules, but it is unbelievable that some who are now whining about chinese dumping are promising market economy status for china, without mentioning that this would only ... (the president cut off the speaker)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr edouard martin, very warmly. it is not only his report that has repeatedly brought the steel industry into the debate in parliament. i think we need to have this debate right now. 328 000 jobs are directly linked to this sector and they are massively at risk. the crisis in the sector can almost be summed up in one word: overcapacity. with up to 350 million tonnes of mostly chinese cheap steel pouring into the world market, there is little room for competition. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. firstly, industry needs a reliable legal framework. we must therefore speed up the process of clarifying the reform of the emissions trading system and the design of the carbon leakage list. second, china is not a market economy. as long as the people's republic does not meet the five relevant criteria according to the eu definition, it cannot be recognised as a market economy. article 15 (d) of the wto accession protocol also supports this argument. thirdly, the crisis must not lead to a downward spiral with a one-sided focus on austerity measures and plant closures. if know-how is being lost and investment in innovation is not being made, we have no chance of competing globally. the eu can help by implementing a package of measures, some of which were also addressed by the competitiveness council on 9 november: the efse, the use of the revised state aid guidelines, the rapid implementation of the energy union and the consistent application of the modernised procurement law for the procurement of sustainable steel. the eu sector may have lost importance in recent years, but it remains of great importance to european industry. it is the foundation of many industries and the employer of thousands of people. that's why he deserves our attention.
which brings us to the catch-the-eye procedure. i won't be able to take on all of them, but we'll try to get as many as we can. catch the eye
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at a meeting of the december ii part-session. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by ole christensen, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020 (2015/2107 (ini)) (a8-0312/2015).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i think the commission has made a very good analysis in its strategy. but what is missing is actually what is actually going to happen. the world of work is changing, and we really need a strategy. we have new phenomena that are becoming more and more prevalent, such as depression. for example, in germany, one in ten workers is absent each year because of depression or musculoskeletal disorders. 19 per cent of workers in germany say they suffer from chronic back pain due to their work. or, as has been said, carcinogens: hundreds of thousands of people die every year in the eu from work-related cancer, and the numbers are rising. we need action. what we need are really concrete measures for all workers, and it must not make any difference whether one works in a large or a small firm.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 25 november 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on preventive measures to tackle the gender pension gap in the eu (2015/2971 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the fact that you are a man or a woman determines your access to the labour market, your working conditions and, above all, your earnings. women in the eu - we all know this - earn about 16% less than men, and this is of course reflected in their pensions. the commission is now planning - you said it, mrs thyssen - to tackle this problem. i hear that childcare should be better and more affordable, working hours should be more flexible, and men should be given more incentives to participate in care, in family work. that's nice, but it doesn't solve the problem. because it's really about wage differentials. we need to fix it. we'll have to turn the other screws. we need binding action plans on equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market, we need reports on equal pay, and they must also be binding on employers. the commission you said it, you are planning it must regularly collect data on the gender pay gap and also promote gender-neutral workplace assessment. it's the only way we're going to achieve income transparency and also reduce income inequality. this is the very prerequisite for closing the pension gap in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures. i would like to thank you very much for your support so that we can work together on this. it is indeed unheard of that there is a pension gap of 40 per cent and that we are still, after all these years, with a wage gap of on average more than 16 per cent. we have to do something about that. together, we can make that work. we'll have to concentrate on the work itself. what are the careers of women like? what sector do they work in? do they work full-time, part-time? how well are they paid? i think we need to look at the equal pay, equal pay for equal work rules here. we have rules, but the question is: are they adequately enforced and enforced? secondly, we must look at the pension schemes themselves, the pension systems, the specific approach and the specific rules within them. i just mentioned a few. for example, credits for people who take on caring tasks can provide a good correction here. i think we should rightly, as mrs arena has said, also look at the second pillar for women. in our report on the adequacy of pensions it is clear that if we want not only sustainable pension systems but also adequate pensions, that is to say, adequate cover to maintain the standard of living of pensioners at a certain level, then we must develop and extend this second pillar of pensions for a longer period. we must certainly also look at this from a gender perspective and ensure that women and sectors in which women are active also have access to this second pension pillar. you know that we have a fresh new start - that is what we have called it - as an alternative to the proposal on maternity protection which we have withdrawn. there are many possibilities here that could also provide a solution to this problem. so let's make it work.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
before i close the sitting, i should like to thank the interpreters very much, because the debate today - particularly on steel - was so passionate that it sometimes went really high. thank you very much. (the sitting was closed at 11.20 p.m.)
ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, at the end of the day, tunisia was once again in mourning over a terrorist attack in the heart of its capital, which claimed the lives of 14 members of the presidential guard. i would like to condemn in the strongest terms this abominable act on behalf of our institution and assure the tunisian authorities and the tunisian people of our unwavering support. our thoughts and sympathies are also with the families of the victims. in less than two weeks, ladies and gentlemen, terrorists have struck in beirut, paris, bamako and again in tunis, each time causing pain and dismay. this terrorism without borders shows once again that we are all involved in this fight. this will be a long fight, but we will fight it with determination, respecting our democratic foundations and in the framework of cooperation which we must strengthen with our allies and partners.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the recent terrorist attacks in paris (2015/2972 ((rsp)).
president of the council. mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, you have just referred to this new barbaric act that has been committed in tunis and i think that the council absolutely shares your condemnation of this cowardly attack and we express our full sympathy, our full thoughts to the courageous tunisian people. in the same way, i would like to reiterate our thoughts of sympathy to the victims, their families, the city of paris and all the other victims of terrorism, and you have spoken of them. today, more than ever, we need solidarity in action against the scourge of terrorism. a decisive action, capable of defending our freedoms, our values, but also the security of our fellow citizens. we need the widest and most intensive european cooperation possible, and it must involve all those who are willing to join us in this relentless struggle against those who sow terror, who kill blindly. never has there been such a need for a strong and decisive europe, capable of taking swift, coordinated and firm action. the presidency, after the paris attacks, immediately convened an extraordinary justice and home affairs council on 20 november, at the end of which ambitious actions were decided upon. the council decided to confirm its commitment to the fight against terrorism by focusing on operational measures. it is essential that we mobilise all our energies to achieve results and make our societies safer. let me now explain the measures adopted. the council also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the pnr system is implemented at european level. the presidency hopes to reach an agreement with parliament at the next trilogue and we are fully aware of the importance for you of concluding the negotiations on the data protection package. the presidency reiterates its commitment to also finalize the negotiations before the end of the year. as regards the trafficking of firearms, the council is working to combat illegal arms trafficking more effectively within the european union, drawing on revised texts and operations carried out in the framework of the so-called european union policy cycle to combat large-scale international organised crime. the presidency will begin discussions this week on the proposal for a revision of the firearms directive which the commission has just presented. as regards the reinforcement of external border controls, member states undertake to implement immediately the necessary systematic and coordinated controls at the external borders, including on persons enjoying the right of free movement. the terrorist in the jewish museum in brussels had a european passport, and the terrorists who acted in paris in january, in copenhagen and again in paris on 13 november had, for some of them, european passports. i would ask parliament to take account of this reality and the expectations of our fellow citizens. a modernisation of the border control systems of the schengen member states will be implemented by march 2016. as regards third-country nationals, member states shall systematically register, including fingerprinting, third-country nationals entering the schengen area and carry out systematic security checks using the relevant databases. finally, member states will reinforce controls at the most exposed external borders, including by deploying, where the situation so requires, rapid border intervention teams and police officers to ensure that screening and security checks are carried out in a systematic manner. as regards the exchange of information, the council undertook to implement a series of actions aimed at making the best use of the tools put in place and at allowing the most effective cooperation possible. member states will thus ensure that national authorities systematically enter data on all suspected foreign terrorist fighters into the sis ii database. the council welcomed the establishment of the european centre for the fight against terrorism at europol on 1 january. the new europol regulation, on which we hope to reach agreement without delay, should be consistent with the mandate and objectives of the centre, including the internet content reporting unit. member states will second counter-terrorism experts to the centre to form a reinforced cross-border investigation support unit capable of providing rapid and comprehensive support to investigators in the event of a major terrorist incident in the european union. the council invited the commission to submit a legislative proposal to enable europol to make systematic cross-checks between its databases and those of sis ii. in terms of the fight against terrorist financing, the council invited the commission to submit proposals to strengthen, harmonise and improve the competences of financial intelligence units and their cooperation with each other, and to ensure that these units have rapid access to the information needed to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. the council also recommended that controls on non-bank payment methods be strengthened. in the context of judicial responses to terrorism and violent extremism, the council notes with satisfaction the signing by the union, in riga on 22 october, of the council of europe convention on the prevention of terrorism and its additional protocol on foreign terrorist fighters. it welcomed the commission's intention to present, before the end of this year, a proposal for a directive updating the framework decision on the fight against terrorism. the council also recommended improvements to the information system on criminal records (ecris) and preventive measures. all these measures require strict monitoring, and the council will ensure that this is done. our firm and determined response must be calm, respectful of fundamental rights and our charter, which remains our guiding principle.
president of the commission. mr president, mr president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, we shall long remember friday 13 november, the day when an unrelenting fate befell the city of lights. many destroyed biographies, many unfulfilled dreams, many interrupted journeys, many unrealized plans and projects. we share the french people's grief and will support the republic's response. today, more than ever, i say: "long live france and her republic", which is also ours. (applause) i would like to repeat to this high assembly what i said immediately after the terrible attacks in paris. i would like to warn against the dangerous, pernicious amalgamation of refugees, asylum seekers, migrants and terrorists on an equal footing. the same people who carried out and instigated the paris attacks are the very same people who are forcing the poor of this planet to flee. no more mixing! (applause) i would like to thank we must not turn misfortune into rhetorical effect. we must not give in to this temptation, which is dramatically ridiculous. i am saying that we must safeguard the spirit of schengen. yes, the schengen system is partly comatose and those who believe in europe, its values, its principles and its freedoms will have to try - and they will try - to revive the spirit of schengen. if the spirit of schengen leaves our territories and our hearts, we will lose more than schengen. a single currency is meaningless if schengen falls. it is important to remember that schengen is not a neutral, trivial concept, but one of the cornerstones of the european construction. i would like to call on the member states once again to do what they have promised. president schmit has this morning elegantly recalled a number of decisions implemented by the council and the member states. we must continue along this path and the commission will do everything in its power to ensure that the member states remember their commitments. we will have to assist the european union's immediate neighbours better than before. the collective performance of jordan and lebanon is admirable, and we must therefore support those peoples who are bearing a heavy burden in the context of the refugee crisis. we tend to focus on our cooperation with turkey. we mustn't forget the others. that is why the commission proposed months ago, and the council adopted, the creation of a trust fund for africa, which is worth €1.8 billion. it is a decision which was not taken, as is often said and as we read almost every day, at the valletta summit. this is a decision that the member states, on the basis of a commission proposal, had taken several weeks before, with the additional remark that the member states have committed themselves to contributing an additional amount of eur 1.8 billion to bring this trust fund for africa to eur 3.6 billion. we intend to make sure that the promises are fulfilled and we are grateful to the luxembourg presidency, whose speed we welcome, for moving forward with the work on the revision of european firearms legislation, and in particular on its deactivation. we in the commission, like others, believe that the european passenger register should be set up, including for intra-european flights. i am aware that this proposal will raise many questions, but it is clear that the pnr must also be applied to intra-european flights. i think the intelligence community needs to work together more. with guy verhofstadt, then prime minister of the kingdom of belgium, i attended two or three european councils after the new york attacks. already a week after the new york attacks, we, the heads of state and government, had promised ourselves to make the secret services work better and in a concerted way. it was not. today we are told again and again that the intelligence services must cooperate in the best possible way. i would like to see this time that we achieve the necessary cooperation between the secret services. (applause) in the spirit of president schmit's remarks, i would like to confirm that in december the commission will be proposing a text on the creation of a border and coast guard corps, which is a necessity for better protection of our external borders. on sunday, a summit will be held with the 28 member states and turkey, which will include the refugee crisis. i would like to pay tribute to first vice-president timmermans for the remarkable work he has done when, on what i believe to be three occasions, he visited turkey to discuss with the turkish authorities the forms of cooperation we can establish with that country. we will adopt a joint action plan with turkey and, for the rest, we are negotiating the details of these arrangements. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. when i came home on friday evening from an appointment, i was actually looking forward to a football match between germany and france and then i was shocked, as we all were, when i turned on the television and saw the images from paris. we are all deeply affected and in mourning. first, our thoughts are with the victims. unfortunately, too often the perpetrators are spoken of too quickly and the victims too little. that is why our thoughts are with the victims and their families. (applause from the centre) it is prudence and it is determination that is necessary. first, there is prudence. when i saw the pictures, i also thought of charlie hebdo a few months ago in paris. and then i remembered a name, ahmed merabet. he was a policeman, a french policeman who stood guard at charlie hebdo, defended charlie hebdo. and he was muslim. last friday, a week ago, many muslims were murdered by madmen, by terrorists. so the first thing we have to realize is that it's not muslims, it's not islam that's our problem, but it's crazy extremists and terrorists that are our problem. it would be a victory for the terrorists if we allowed an entire religious group to be placed under general suspicion now. (applause from the centre) the second principle i would like to emphasize, which the president of the commission has already mentioned, is that refugees who come to europe are victims of terrorism and not perpetrators. that is why the confusion now being made by some populists and extremists in the political sphere is unacceptable. it would also be a victory for the terrorists if we were to place all refugees under general suspicion. (applause from the centre) thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, the terrorists hate our way of life, freedom, joy of life, tolerance, democracy. that's why we can't let ourselves be questioned as a species. i have great respect for the people of paris, for the people of france, who are just now showing that they will not let their way of life be destroyed by terrorists. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, back to ahmed merabet, a policeman who paid with his life to defend our freedom. ladies and gentlemen, outside the european parliament in brussels there are soldiers, young men, protecting our work. and for that, i'd also like to thank all the authorities who risk their lives every day to keep us safe. thank you for that. (applause from the centre) i am not going to go into detail. of course, as a politician, there's a lot going on in your head when we talk about these issues. it is a matter of principle, mr president, that we should not be doing this. for many years the same decision has been taken in the council, the same speeches have been made continuously, and unfortunately nothing happens. you have to make something happen! that is what the people of europe expect. and we have to be critical of each other internally, too. i'd think of that as a politician. i hear the french minister of the interior appealing to us as a parliament to finally deliver on the pnr. and i have to say on behalf of my group: we deliver! for months, for years, we at pnr have felt that this has to happen. and many other colleagues, especially the social democrats, voted against the pnr in the european parliament's committee on internal affairs. i also have to say to the french minister of the interior: please speak to your group if you think we are not making progress! (applause from the centre) but, to be honest, ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to make this mutual offsetting the focus of my speech. i had thought about it, but i do not want to do it because i want to promote, that is, to work together, to tackle the issues together, to move forward on pnr, to move forward on the issues of europol, on the data protection directive, to move forward on combating the financing of terrorism so that we can get results there, and on data retention so that we can get them all over europe. our investigative agencies need this data! ladies and gentlemen, that's what drives us. we in the epp group want to achieve results, and we want to do this together in europe. we must be aware that this is a challenge for the whole of europe, for all of us in the european responsibility. i appeal to everyone not to talk for the next few weeks, but to finally act! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - i'm not going to the cinema. the socialists tabled a motion last night to amend today's dati report on radicalisation so that the objective of completing the pnr by the end of the year is again deleted. the proposal has now thankfully been withdrawn by the socialists. i am very grateful for that. i also want to make it clear that we should end these debates. i have tried to say that we should put an end to these debates and work together to tackle these issues, and i hope that the socialists are ready to do so. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the european parliament has demonstrated unity last week and i hope it will do so again today in condemning the terrorist attacks in paris, in tunis, in bamako and elsewhere in the world for what they are: attacks on people, on our values, on everything that really constitutes our civilization, our civilized coexistence in this century. there is no excuse, no justification. everyone must know that you don't kill people! but let us not misuse or abuse the concerns and feelings of grief of people who have witnessed the attacks, either directly or through the media. there have been two sentences in the last few days, which have been repeated today in part, and which i think are very important: terrorism is not to be confused with the refugee question, and refugees have just fled the terror we are experiencing in europe. but in reality, not much remains of this appeal to reason and decency. i am reminded of mr orbán's statement that all terrorists were migrants. a phrase as contemptuous as it is insidious. because all non-terrorists are and have been migrants. all humans are migrants. mr orbán is an immigrant. is mr orbán - and the question is - a terrorist? in the face of terrorist attacks, we should say clearly and emphatically that the closure of borders between member states within the european union, the debate on ceilings, the rejection of refugees and the macabre definition we are currently experiencing of so-called safe countries of origin are, in my view, exactly part of this false debate, of this abuse. it is not just run by a few people, but we have here the prime ministers of our european union, we have party leaders here, it is all over the place. let's not repeat the mistakes of 9/11! what security, cooperation and development have the wars against afghanistan, iraq and libya brought to the world community? this is the worst of all responses. neither air strikes nor drone strikes have dried up the roots of terrorism. i would also like to refer to the statements made by american drone pilots who have said that their way of conducting the war has allowed new terrorists to be recruited. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the illegal immigration of refugees. go to war with turkey and russia? no, thank you. the european union must be able to take action in this area. yes, you are! i think that must be our response to yesterday's developments. we have different opportunities and responsibilities as the eu. we should be aware of them. i am thinking here of the situation in the suburbs, but also in other conurbations of european metropolises. we must therefore start an offensive to integrate and create prospects for young people. we have - and i would like to mention this - a debate on a new sustainable neighbourhood policy. i would like to support that. that can and must be our answer. i would like to point this out. otherwise, let us also talk about stopping arms exports! we're not just talking about the financial resources that are being taken away, we're talking about stopping the exchange or allowing them to trade in oil and cultural goods. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. well, i'm used to a lot of absurd questions, but you didn't listen to me either. i said in the first sentence: there is no excuse, no justification for anyone to resort to terror and murder people! that's it! but then we must also be able to talk about the situation, the hopelessness and the lack of prospects, especially among young people in many urban areas, including the european union. what does one have to do with the other? i'm not putting it in direct context. but i say we take care of it. because it was a misguided integration policy, a non-integration policy, and that is always a problem, and that is what we have to deal with.
madam president, the recent terrible attacks have not been the first in europe. we knew about the threat, and we owe it to the victims to reconsider if our actions are delivering effective security or not. already after 9/11, joint investigation teams were set up under europol and eurojust to enforce the cooperation of the member state authorities. however, for 14 years this has barely been used, and there is no money, no personnel and no political will from the member states to strengthen european cooperation, in particular for going after terrorist suspects in europe. in europol, information sharing is almost dysfunctional, as large numbers of member states do not share information on known suspects and risks. if this were different today, we would perhaps have prevented a number of recent attacks. but instead of learning from our mistakes, we just go on with the same ineffective measures we have taken. the current proposal by the council on an eu pnr directive is in fact an extraordinarily expensive model of 28 silos full of completely irrelevant information on innocent travellers. at the same time, we have already known for years who is on which plane in europe, but we did not follow up on alerts regarding known suspects travelling to syria and back to the european union. this is why we need to focus. we need targeted information-sharing and joint investigations. this is what we should deliver and spend our money on – nothing else.
mr president, there is a problem with the interpretation. i hear only dutch on all channels, so maybe they are the only ones who are working here!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we will only defeat terrorism if we act together - internally, but especially externally. that is why we social democrats welcome the vienna talks, the initiative by federica mogherini and some foreign ministers to bring the warring groups in syria to the same table with the united states, russia, iran and saudi arabia. bombs may be a necessary part of our fight, but they will not bring a solution unless there is a common vision, a common plan for the future of syria. secondly, we need to have close cooperation with the arab and muslim countries. i am reminded of the speech made by king abdullah ii of jordan in this house in march. because it is not about defending the christian west against the islamic world, but about defending civilized humanity against well-organized criminals. i have to say that i am very pleased. they have announced what the council intends to do and decide in the near future. i welcome it, and i want to believe it. because people want to see action, they want to get answers to their questions: what action is being taken against those who finance terrorism? what action is being taken against those who allow this funding? what action is being taken against those who buy oil from terrorists and organise the theft of art? and what is being done to not only equip our intelligence services as best we can, but to finally force them to cooperate? and when will we finally forbid ourselves to export the weapons that make these wars, these terrorist states, operational? i'm not talking about the illegal ones -- that's what -- i'm talking about the legal ones, but not the legitimate ones. and here is a german member of parliament speaking, i know what i am talking about. the people of our country do not expect any more minutes of silence and resolutions from those who govern them, but actions visible, consistent and common in the eu!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i welcome the commission and the council, ladies and gentlemen. i am a little disappointed that the old game is starting again here today: the european parliament is scolding the member states and the member states are saying that the european parliament is not acting. i do not think it is useful to blame each other, but rather to analyse the security gaps and close them together. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in the elections to the european parliament. but then we would also need an automatic data comparison, for example with the pnr system or with eurodac or with the future smart borders package, because we want to allow ordinary travellers to travel normally, but identify the criminals who want to enter our country or europe or want to leave it and go to war. if only we would accept such normal and reasonable proposals! i'm always fascinated by privacy. on the one hand, jan philipp albrecht claims that we can now exchange data freely. at the same time, i am aware of the many obstacles which lead police officers to say: i cannot cope with this in everyday life, because before i make a mistake in this, i would rather do nothing at all. so we need to make things for police officers so that they can also effectively exchange and use them accordingly. we must also give europol the staff to do this, and then i would hope that the greens would perhaps say yes to this too.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the mourning for the victims of paris was soon overshadowed by a word: war. we must stop this rhetoric! the united states had declared a war on terror, justifying guantanamo and torture, among other things. the attackers are criminals and murderers, and their attacks are indiscriminate and have only one aim: to destroy democratic and open societies. they must not reach that goal! yes, we need to review our security policy; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and its implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy (csdp). but all reforms will be in vain if the member states do not finally work together more effectively, use existing measures and share knowledge. the european security net is at times like swiss cheese. it is therefore irresponsible and wrong in the matter of fact to create the impression in the public debate that individual measures such as the retention of passenger data could directly increase safety. and there are still many open questions. it is in this area in particular that an annulment by the ecj, as recently in the case of safe harbour or the retention of data, would be problematic, because it would shake confidence in our ability to act. the principle is correct: we need a change in the situation in syria, and in view of the radicalisation here in europe, we need to end social and societal exclusion in a sustainable way. integration measures are not a nice side effect but an integral part of a policy of internal security and safeguarding internal peace.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the terrible terrorist attacks in paris have shown us terrorism at its worst, a terrorism that is driven by indiscriminate murder. as long as we have such people in the country - such terrorists - there can be no security. there's always a chance of attack. that means the only way is to really dry up the milieu in which this radical fundamentalist islamism thrives, is to expel those who operate this milieu as undesirable persons of the country. but we can only do that with people who are not citizens of european countries. we can only do that with foreigners. that is why we must also have access to citizenship law. we must also restore the possibility for immigrants who have been naturalised - as these terrorists have - or their sons to be deprived of their citizenship. i think that we can no longer afford to ignore this security risk.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. yes, that's right. the democrats have to stand together. yes, that's right. we must not jump to conclusions and - yes, that is true - it also has to do with the causes we have to look at in the people who sin in this way. but i'm not interested in talking about it forever. but what i am interested in now - and the citizens are interested in it too - is whether we are doing something concrete so that tomorrow they can cross the street again in cologne, düsseldorf, brussels or london without fear. then it bothers me that we don't get along in many places. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but why is there no vote in our committee, why is there no majority? it's not gonna work on anyone who says no. or mr albrecht, who just said that this too would be the wrong concept, that it would be far too costly. yes, there is a problem! i'm fairly certain that the issue of intelligence cooperation, early information, is very central, and so maybe you really have to think about whether this, that we always negotiate with each other in the context of data protection, is also right in these times. i want to live in safety and i want us as politicians to make sure that people don't have to fear for their lives tomorrow. then you have to question some of it. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the council! 80% or more of the dead from islamist terror are muslims. we must never fall into the trap of thinking that this is a fight against islam or that migration, refugees and terrorism are the same thing. at the same time, i would also like to say that after what has been done to the french people, for which we have all expressed our deep regret, the national services are to blame. it is not about clearing schengen or closing the borders, but about, as my predecessor rightly said, finally committing our intelligence and security services to cooperate. is it true that only five member states are fulfilling their obligations to provide europol with all data? is it true that there is no proper exchange of information with frontex, that frontex does not get the data? these soft hats of all countries monitor us citizens and listen to us, but are not able to exchange the data necessary for the security of our citizens. it must be clear that the member states of the european union are failing to protect the citizens of the european union. it should be made clear that this is the solution and not the restriction of the rights of citizens or migrants.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think the most important task of the state is to provide for the safety of its citizens and to protect them. i want our children to go to school in the morning without fear and i want parents who are at home or at work to be sure that their children will come home after school. many measures to improve safety in the member states have been on the table, some for many years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. all of this is on the table. i would like to ask all the members of this house to make a constructive contribution to ensuring that we finally put the necessary measures into practice and put forward proposals. i would also appeal to you, mr president-in-office, to force the member states to tackle now, massively, what has been on the table for so many years.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you for being here today. mr president, your personal history shows a constant and deep commitment to the defence and strengthening of the european project. the european institutions were part of your first visit abroad as president of the republic and in all your speeches in italy and abroad you always recall not only the need for the european project for italy but also the roots and strength of your country's europeanist vocation. today you will address a parliament and a european union still deeply shaken by the terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorism. it was a terror that shocked us all, that targeted our europe, our values, our youth. italy has united itself in great solidarity with the french people and italy has lost an exemplary citizen. yesterday, mr president, you were in venice, where the funeral of valeria solesin, the young researcher at the sorbonne who was killed by terrorists at the bataclan, was held in st mark's square. her smile, her face, her commitment to volunteering, her research and her call for women's participation in the world of work will remain indelible and demonstrate what divides valeria solesin' europe from the murderous madness of jihadist terror. the whole of europe is rallying around the family of valeria solesin and all the victims of terror. europe is threatened by global crises and problems. he has to prove himself up to the challenges that lie ahead. as you yourself said when speaking to the members of the european parliament in italy, the choice is between a europe that confronts events, governing them, and a europe that suffers events without being able to guide them. italy is on the side of the answer. it was the engine and inspiration behind european integration, even when the rest of europe was not yet ready to follow the economic governance and common immigration policy. i thank you for being here today and i give you the floor.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes) before the vote:
yes, mr. marias, i will. we'll get to the bottom of it, i'll check it out, and then i'll let you know.
the 2016 budget has been adopted. i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs, mr fernandes and mr deprez. thank you for your intensive and very, very careful work, colleagues.
president of the council. mr president, i will be very brief. i wanted to be present when you were going to approve the budget of the european union. as the representative of the presidency, i simply wanted to welcome the very good cooperation we have been able to have with parliament and the commission. we have managed to conclude the negotiations on time and the very good news is that for the first time in a long time the member states have unanimously approved this budget. so it proves that we have found a compromise that suits both of us. i would like to congratulate the chairman of the committee on budgets, mr jean arthuis, the rapporteurs, mr fernandes and mr deprez, and mrs gardiazabal rubial and mr geier, for their tireless work, and especially the commission which has, i believe, introduced a more transparent procedure in order to reach a compromise more quickly and to avoid costs and reasons for nervousness in order to arrive at conclusions with more serenity. i would also like to stress that we have reached an agreement on administrative and staff matters which i believe has made the horizon clearer and which in fact strengthens the interinstitutional trust that we really need in these difficult times in the face of the budgetary challenges we are facing. but the budgetary challenges are simply a reflection of the tragedies that are affecting europe, the budget being an important element, but perhaps not the most difficult, as we know and as the previous discussion and the excellent speech by the italian president also showed very well. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
the joint draft agreed by the conciliation committee on 14 november 2015 was approved by parliament and the council. the budgetary procedure was conducted in accordance with article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is now over with these decisions. i hereby declare that the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016 has been definitively adopted. i will now sign this budget in your presence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to make a point of order under rule 186 of the rules of procedure. my group has asked - we all looked each other in the eye on monday and agreed to extend the existing mandate of the taxe committee - to ask the conference of presidents to take appropriate measures so that we can do the same this week. the tabling desk rejected this, saying that we were interfering with the powers of the conference of presidents. i do not see how calling on the conference of presidents to do something interferes with the powers of the commission. i would therefore ask you to decide whether this request should be allowed under rule 170 (3) of the rules of procedure. secondly, i would like to ask whether it is true that the epp, s&d and alde met, excluding the greens and the left group, to agree on a new, narrower mandate, in order to spare people like mr gramegna - he is there - or mr juncker or mr dijsselbloem from further unpleasant questions. this is totally unacceptable and i would like to know why.
i'm not going to lie. i cannot give you any information on that last point. the groups must give their views on this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i'm just grateful that the tabling desk gave me this letter. i learned from the letter that you made me responsible for the tabling desk's decision. but i only found out about it through your letter, so that was that. the second point: the conference of presidents will decide tomorrow, as far as i am aware, on the setting up of a so-called taxe ii committee. in any case, this has been requested because we are today dealing with a final report which is part of the mandate, with this report by mr theurer/ferreira on the taxe-i committee. that means i heard your proposal. i assume that the content of your request will also be discussed at the conference of presidents tomorrow. but today we are concluding the taxe-i committee with this report. but if we have completed the taxe-i committee by adopting this report, we cannot extend the mandate. that is a contradiction in terms. that is why the tabling desk said that your request - and you have just submitted it - is not admissible.
the president is responsible for interpreting the rules of procedure. if there is any doubt, the bureau of this house, the conference of presidents, if necessary, and the afco committee, if necessary, will look into it and then interpret it. you're right to say that my interpretation is wrong. but you have no right to say that martin schulz is interpreting the rules of procedure as martin schulz. i'm doing this in my official capacity. if you do not agree, ... (interim appeal) i have listened to you kindly to the end, perhaps you have the same courtesy. if you don't agree with it, you have every right to disagree with it. you have just made that very clear.
firstly, i am trying to look very closely at it. i follow every check-in. i think there are a few other things on the visitors' stand that are more terrifying than these things.
you can also follow it on the screens, it's relatively easy.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i'm sure the colleagues are very interested. but it is also open to any member to send corresponding extracts of mr coburn's speeches to the parliaments.
so, one more time. but, mr president, listening to an answer is part of democracy. but you don't seem that interested in answers.
- i'm not going to. i would like to thank you very much for your objective tone and i shall try to give you a very objective answer. we have 24 official languages here, and it is absolutely impossible for someone who understands finnish to sit in the portuguese booth at every meeting. this means that we also have several languages that are interpreted in the relay. the second interpreter has to wait until the first interpretation is there. the british colleagues are still in a very privileged position. but some of my colleagues in this house have got used to it, even among their greek colleagues: this katá is dagegen! so i personally have never felt misled by the "for" or "against" of any kind. that's the one. so we can't wait for that to be in every interpretation. we have had, i think, 101 roll-call votes today and at least twice as many open votes. if we invest another 10 seconds for each vote until we have every language, we're completely drunk. that means we have to be efficient. i've gotten used to not arguing with anyone if they think i've made the wrong decision. it is enough for a colleague to call "check", and i check the vote. otherwise, i think i was wrong today once. today i felt really insecure about some things myself, because the thing was really confusing. then i said, "we're going to do an electronic check". otherwise, this is a relatively easy exercise. if you look closely, and you see that three large factions are pointing in the same direction, then it may not seem very satisfying to you, but then you can see where the majority is, and then you can give it a little bit of a push. because if you just multiply 750 people per minute, that's 12 man hours. if we save ten minutes, that's 120 man-hours, in which you can do something more sensible.
firstly, if i have been biased, i would be very grateful if you would write to me and tell me what you mean, and i would be prepared to discuss it with you. i was only allergic because words were used here - that it is a disgrace, that it is complete nonsense - and language was used which i personally consider to be unparliamentary and not appropriate to the matter. i would also like to say that we used to have more time for speaking and voting. we used to date until friday morning. i thought it was more efficient. so you cannot say on the one hand that you want more speaking time, on the other hand that you want to keep strasbourg on a chair and then complain that it is too crowded. i would also point out that we have fewer voters in brussels than here in strasbourg. i would like to conclude the debate now and give the members the opportunity to make their explanations of vote. the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on draft amending budget no 8/2015: own resources and european data protection supervisor, as i consider the work of the european data protection supervisor to be an important activity in the interest of citizens and i myself, inter alia in the area of the general data protection regulation, advocate strong, workable data protection at the workplace in the form of the chapter solution (article 82).
in writing. ‒ adequate financial resources are needed to tackle the root causes of the current refugee crisis. at the same time, good integration of refugees who have already arrived must be ensured. it is also important for a solution to be found that financial commitments to existing trust funds, such as those for africa and syria, are respected.
in writing. ‒ the resolution notes that the impact of draft amending budget no 8/2015 is a eur 9 403,4 million reduction in member states’ contribution to the union budget. it is, however, highlighted that additional means are needed to address the refugee crisis, both along the transit routes and for their reception in europe’s cities, and that the financial pledges for the agencies supporting refugees are still lagging behind by eur 2,3 billion. even though a firm compromise could not be reached to use the reflow to address the refugee crisis, i have voted in favour of the resolution since the position of the council was approved and the amending budget adopted. by the way, in my opinion the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ providing additional financial resources to address the challenges of hosting an unprecedented number of refugees in european cities and regions cannot be in the spirit of responsible policy towards the peoples of europe. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not further complicated by the fact that the situation in the former yugoslavia is not yet fully resolved.
in writing. ‒ i have agreed to the european parliament resolution on amending budget no 8/2015 on own resources and the european data protection supervisor. this is a standard exercise, in particular to adapt the annual contributions of the member states to the circumstances. the sum is to be charged to the member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained today from voting on the report on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration, as i support the concern the eu's ability to act in this crisis situation . at the same time, i regard the use of the accelerated procedure without sufficient consultation of parliament and its committees as a very bad idea.
in writing. ‒ i support the use of the flexibility instrument. we need sufficient financial support to meet the challenges of the ongoing refugee crisis. the importance of the eu having sufficient flexibility in its budgeting is becoming clearer.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument was published together with commission letter of amendment 2/2016 of 14 october 2015. this mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 1.5 billion over the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in heading 3 and eur 24 million in heading 4 and is intended to finance support measures for the management of the refugee crisis. in principle, i am in favour of the adoption of measures to deal with the migration and refugee crisis and of the use of the flexibility instrument in exceptional circumstances. however, i believe there is more scope for a reshuffle in the 2016 budget. there are a number of budget lines with poor implementation and no demonstrable eu added value that could be cut to help tackle the migration and refugee crisis. this requires a comprehensive eu approach, as we in alfa have already suggested weeks ago. this includes measures such as comprehensive control of the eu's external borders, the establishment of transit zones outside the schengen area and the consistent return of rejected asylum seekers. i have abstained on this point because it is still pending.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument was published together with commission letter of amendment 2/2016 of 14 october 2015. this mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 1.5 billion over the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in heading 3 and eur 24 million in heading 4 and is intended to finance support measures for the management of the refugee crisis. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. i therefore support the use of the flexibility instrument in these exceptional circumstances. it is important and right that the eu also makes a fairly large financial contribution. that's why i agreed to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument was published together with commission letter of amendment 2/2016 of 14 october 2015. this mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 1.5 billion over the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in heading 3 and eur 24 million in heading 4 and is intended to finance support measures for the management of the refugee crisis. in principle, i am in favour of the adoption of measures to deal with the migration and refugee crisis and of the use of the flexibility instrument in exceptional circumstances. however, i believe there is more scope for a reshuffle in the 2016 budget. there are a number of budget lines with poor implementation and no demonstrable eu added value that could be cut to help tackle the migration and refugee crisis. this requires a comprehensive eu approach, as we in alfa have already suggested weeks ago. this includes measures such as comprehensive control of the eu's external borders, the establishment of transit zones outside the schengen area and the consistent return of rejected asylum seekers. i have abstained on this point because it is still pending.
in writing. ‒ the proposal to mobilise the flexibility instrument was published together with commission letter of amendment 2/2016 of 14 october 2015. this mobilisation concerns an amount of eur 1.5 billion over the ceiling of the multiannual financial framework (mff) in heading 3 and eur 24 million in heading 4 and is intended to finance support measures for the management of the refugee crisis. the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. i therefore support the use of the flexibility instrument in these exceptional circumstances. it is important and right that the eu also makes a fairly large financial contribution. that's why i agreed to the proposal.
in writing. ‒ the allocation of additional funding of eur 1.528 billion until 2019 for further measures in the area of 'migration and refugees' cannot be in the spirit of a european safeguard for the future. there is no upper limit. it is totally unacceptable to envisage financial measures to deal with the 'refugee' crisis with the option of unchecked increase, if the causes of poverty of refugees are left unchanged.
in writing. ‒ i have refused to give my consent to the european parliament's resolution on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument for urgent budgetary measures under the european agenda on migration. the main issue is the budgetary implementation of the european refugee policy. i think that the european refugee policy is a failure and i therefore do not want to allocate a budget for it. the quotas in particular must and will fail, while the resettlement of refugees has been hampered from the start.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide advances in the 2016 budget. eu assistance to member states and candidate countries affected by floods or other natural disasters is handled through the european union solidarity fund (eusf). this makes the eusf one of the most visible and effective examples of eu solidarity.
in writing. ‒ the european solidarity fund supports countries that have been severely affected by natural disasters. at the same time, this fund is also an important sign of european solidarity towards other countries. i therefore vote in favour of the provision of sufficient financial resources in the budget of the european union for the coming year.
in writing. ‒ the proposal regarding the european union solidarity fund (eusf) aims at including in the 2016 general budget of the european union eur 50 million for the timely and efficient payment of advances should a natural disaster strike a european region in the coming year. the eusf is used to respond to situations caused by natural disasters; both in member states and in countries involved in accession negotiations, and thus sends a message of solidarity while assisting citizens. this is why i have voted in favour of this resolution. by the way, in my opinion the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide advances in the 2016 budget. there are some things in the eu which i welcome as an original supranational task, because they cannot be solved as well at local, regional or national level. this includes transnational cooperation and mutual financial assistance in the event of disasters. here european cooperation brings added value, which i would like to support by voting for it.
mr. chairman, first of all, i'd like to congratulate you on the way you've managed to run the meeting so effectively that the opposite voice can be heard. and now for the explanation itself. i have supported the european union budget for next year, even if it is increased by eur 10 billion, and this needs to be explained to our voters and our citizens in the czech republic. the reason is that there is more money being spent on security, and especially on migration and security policy. it is clear that at the moment more money will have to be put into guarding the external border, more money into agencies like frontex. without more money, we can hardly guarantee the security of the european union and fight international terrorism. i also welcome the increase in the budget for certain programmes which are particularly concerned with the education of young people. i consider this particularly important, as does the erasmus programme, because i believe that educating young people is one of the ways in which we can show the younger generation how the european union is useful to them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i am glad that we have confirmed the 2016 budget and can work properly with it. that's the one story. secondly, as a member of the committee on agriculture, i would like to express a small regret that our committee on budgets has rejected all the proposals of the committee on agriculture, not only those which cost money but even those which do not cost money. that kind of pissed me off. i simply ask my colleagues to take the good proposals of the committee on agriculture a little more seriously and to approve them next time, and then i shall have an easier time approving the next budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because i support the compromise reached with the member states. i particularly welcome the fact that we can use the funds available in the eu's multiannual financial planning to tackle the refugee and migration crisis. we are therefore demonstrating that we are using our influence as a parliament to adapt the budget to the challenges of the present time.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the report on the joint draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2015, approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure, because i consider that the savings efforts made there are partly too low and partly misfocused. i wish i had taken a bolder approach.
in writing. ‒ the 2016 budget is responsive to the challenges of the moment. more funds are being provided to deal with the refugee crisis and the labour market is being financially supported in creating new jobs. at the same time, financial resources will be provided for agriculture, which has been severely affected by the russian conflict.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the council, the commission and parliament on the 2016 budget amounts to eur 155 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 143.8 billion in payment appropriations. this represents an unjustified increase of 6,7% in commitments and 1,8% in payments compared to 2015. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. but almost all the margins were used up instead of re-establishing budgetary priorities. the council itself argued that parliament should narrow its priorities as the increases proposed by parliament collectively exhausted the margins in the areas of growth and employment (headline 1a), cohesion (headline 1b) and security and citizenship (headline 3). this puts at risk the functioning of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i cannot agree to an ever-increasing eu budget without real priorities. that is why i voted against the report. i am also of the opinion that the euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe!
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the council, the commission and parliament on the 2016 budget amounts to eur 155 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 143.8 billion in payment appropriations. this represents an unjustified increase of 6,7% in commitments and 1,8% in payments compared to 2015. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. but almost all the margins were used up instead of re-establishing budgetary priorities. the council itself argued that parliament should narrow its priorities as the increases proposed by parliament collectively exhausted the margins in the areas of growth and employment (headline 1a), cohesion (headline 1b) and security and citizenship (headline 3). this puts at risk the functioning of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i cannot agree to an ever-increasing eu budget without real priorities. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the council, the commission and parliament on the 2016 budget amounts to eur 155 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 143.8 billion in payment appropriations. this represents an unjustified increase of 6,7% in commitments and 1,8% in payments compared to 2015. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. but almost all the margins were used up instead of re-establishing budgetary priorities. the council itself argued that parliament should narrow its priorities as the increases proposed by parliament collectively exhausted the margins in the areas of growth and employment (headline 1a), cohesion (headline 1b) and security and citizenship (headline 3). this puts at risk the functioning of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 (mff). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i cannot agree to an ever-increasing eu budget without real priorities. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the agreement between the council, the commission and parliament on the 2016 budget amounts to eur 155 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 143.8 billion in payment appropriations. this represents an unjustified increase of 6,7% in commitments and 1,8% in payments compared to 2015. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. but almost all the margins were used up instead of re-establishing budgetary priorities. the council itself argued that parliament should narrow its priorities as the increases proposed by parliament collectively exhausted the margins in the areas of growth and employment (headline 1a), cohesion (headline 1b) and security and citizenship (headline 3). this puts at risk the functioning of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff). the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i cannot agree to an ever-increasing eu budget without real priorities. that is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the general budget of the european union sets a number of politically incorrect accents. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the lack of transparency in the internal market. it must therefore be rejected in the interests of european life and future.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the european parliament resolution on the 2016 budgetary procedure and the general budget. the eu budget is bloated, financing a multitude of tasks that cannot be decided at eu level and therefore violates the principle of subsidiarity as well as national responsibility. the budget is based on the principle of perpetual motion: the eu was born out of the common agricultural policy, but today has grown out of it. however, a large part of the budget is used to subsidize the agricultural sector. the budget therefore reflects the fact that the eu has become more and more, but rarely wiser. it is time for fundamental and unabashed reform. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. until then, all i can say is no.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the rejection report under rule 106 of the rules of procedure: authorisation of uses of diethylhexylphthalate (dehp) for purely technical and political reasons, as the eu commission is using the instrument of implementing powers, although the area is not covered by the agreements with parliament. i cannot agree to such an overstepping of authority.
in writing. ‒ dehp is a chemical used in the production of plastics. as an important component, it makes the plastic to be produced more elastic. however, dehp can also present a significant potential for harm to human health and the environment. that is why i support this motion.
in writing. ‒ this objection rejects the authorisation of the use of diethylhexylphthalate (dehp) in recycled pvc. this objection rejects the authorisation decision of the european chemicals agency (echa) on the grounds that it is incompatible with the reach regulation. reach is the european regulation on the registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemical substances. echa concluded that there is a minimal risk to consumers. the objection ignores the far-reaching impact on the circular economy, which is intended to promote recycling in europe, and the increased environmental damage caused by the production of newly produced pvc without any recycling. i voted against the objection because i consider scientific advice to be important and do not want political disputes to determine legislation. parliament should support the circular economy and promote transparency with regard to the reach regulation. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished, because it is leading to discord and division in europe.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote for the european parliament resolution on the refusal to authorise uses of diethylhexylphthalate (dehp) under article 106 of the ec treaty. it's about the scientific question of whether or not you can use dehp. the debate revolves around the question of whether there is a scientifically certain threshold of harmfulness. i have followed the line of my group in this decision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to compliment the committee responsible on its excellent report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council. so, a good result! i would like to say again that i too am very interested in the fact that we continue to pursue the issue of taxation and tax justice. i look forward to the further work of this committee and i look forward to further results.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report because we need a full accounting of all the 'obvious' corporate tax practices of the member states concerned. i also think that this includes the mandatory ad hoc exchange of information on national tax rulings, so that fair tax competition can be ensured in the future. deals end up with tax evasion and a tax increase for all other taxpayers. we therefore have an obligation as members of the european parliament, as representatives of our citizens, to do our part in the fight against illegal practices of tax avoidance and evasion.
in writing. ‒ gue/ngl welcomes the substance of the report by the special committee on tax rulings and other measures similar in nature or effect (taxe). it contains useful proposals for greater tax justice and reflects the negative impact of austerity on tax fairness. despite our many contributions to the report’s final shape, we abstained in today’s vote for the following reasons: political responsibility for tax dumping in the eu has not been fully established and the report does not call for the necessary prolongation of the current mandate; access to documents by the council, the commission and member states remained unsatisfactory; multinational corporations only responded after repeated invitations to taxe, no legal base for sanctions could be established yet and they could not be interrogated thoroughly. moreover, contradictions by the commission president, jean-claude juncker, during his testimony to taxe were not followed up. substance-wise, core issues lack ambition beyond what the commission has proposed already. tax rulings should be made public and tax secrecy laws adjusted. we welcome the idea of consolidating the tax base. however, we miss a clear commitment to broadening the tax base and we criticise the interim period before consolidation which allows for cross-border loss/profit offsetting and no further backstops to prevent tax competition between eu countries.
in writing. ‒ together with my colleagues from the epp group, i am campaigning for companies to pay their taxes in the countries where they actually carry out their economic activity. it is important that we have a better exchange of tax data in the future. this is the only way to develop uniform standards. unless member states work more closely together on this, there will continue to be potential tax loopholes for resourceful companies. once again, it is clear that acting together in europe makes us stronger.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament responded to the luxleaks revelations by setting up a special committee on the role and impact of tax rulings. i supported the establishment of this special committee and voted for the report. alfa is committed to ensuring that all companies and citizens are taxed according to their ability to pay and actually pay these taxes. we need a functioning european regulatory framework in tax law. i am also of the opinion that the euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe!
in writing. ‒ the european parliament has responded to the luxleaks revelations by setting up a special committee on the role and impact of tax rulings. i support this report: alfa is committed to ensuring that all companies and citizens are taxed according to their ability to pay and actually pay these taxes. we need a functioning european regulatory framework in tax law. the report calls for measures such as a common corporate tax base and automatic exchange of information on tax rulings. these measures are designed to make competition between member states more transparent and to clarify the rules of the game. the measures will help to make discrimination in the field of international tax law more difficult. they restore fair conditions of competition both between member states and between undertakings. the tax competition between member states is preserved. it helps to tame government spending behaviour, binds it to taxpayers' wishes and encourages innovation. the right of the states to decide on the level of tax rates in a completely autonomous manner is not restricted. but tax justice would be greatly improved by the measures, for the benefit of citizens and smes.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament responded to the luxleaks revelations by setting up a special committee on the role and impact of tax rulings. i supported the establishment of this special committee and voted for the report. alfa is committed to ensuring that all companies and citizens are taxed according to their ability to pay and actually pay these taxes. we need a functioning european regulatory framework in tax law. the report calls for measures such as a common corporate tax base and automatic exchange of information on tax rulings. these measures are designed to make competition between member states more transparent and to clarify the rules of the game. the measures will help to make discrimination in and through international tax law more difficult. they restore fair conditions of competition, both between member states and between firms. the tax competition between member states is preserved. it helps to tame government spending behaviour, binds it to taxpayers' wishes and encourages innovation. the right of the states to decide on the level of tax rates in a completely autonomous manner is not restricted. but tax fairness would be significantly improved by the measures for the benefit of citizens and smes.
in writing. ‒ was the work of the taxe special committee worthwhile? i have attended all hearings - from trade union representatives, business associations, the big four audit firms to journalists who have played a significant role in the publication of controversial tax practices. we have shed some light on the tax avoidance policies of companies and member states. the cost to honest taxpayers and small and medium-sized enterprises is at least eur 70 billion. so our demands are justified: we must create a framework for fair tax competition and close loopholes for multinational companies. qualified specialists in tax administrations must be recruited to ensure that they fulfil their control obligations. we need clear transparency rules to deal with conflicts of interest. finally, agreement seems to be on the principle that companies tax their profits where they are generated. a responsible tax strategy must be part of every corporate social responsibility reporting. the epp welcomes the exemption for smes in the disclosure of accounts, which will be made country-specific. i agree with the proposal that our mandate as a special committee be extended because a number of documents have been withheld from us so far. the interim report adopted today can only be a first step towards more tax justice in the eu.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament responded to the luxleaks revelations by setting up a special committee on the role and impact of tax rulings. alfa is committed to ensuring that all companies and citizens are taxed according to their ability to pay and actually pay these taxes. we need a functioning european regulatory framework in tax law. the report calls for measures such as a common corporate tax base and automatic exchange of information on tax rulings. the tax competition between member states has thus far been maintained. it is a central liberal element in my view. competition helps to tame government spending behaviour, binds it to taxpayers' wishes and stimulates innovation. although tax competition has so far been maintained through tax rates, i fear that the commission may abuse this first step towards tax harmonization in the future. if it were to harmonise the tax rates according to the tax base, then tax competition would be abolished. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament responded to the luxleaks revelations by setting up a special committee on the role and impact of tax rulings. i supported the establishment of this special committee and voted for the report. alfa is committed to ensuring that all companies and citizens are taxed according to their ability to pay and actually pay these taxes. we need a functioning european regulatory framework in tax law. the report calls for measures such as a common corporate tax base and automatic exchange of information on tax rulings. these measures are designed to make competition between member states more transparent and to clarify the rules of the game. the measures will help to make discrimination in and through international tax law more difficult. they restore fair conditions of competition, both between member states and between firms. the tax competition between member states is preserved. it helps to tame government spending behaviour, binds it to taxpayers' wishes and encourages innovation. the right of the states to decide on the level of tax rates in a completely autonomous manner is not restricted. but tax fairness would be significantly improved by the measures for the benefit of citizens and smes.
in writing. ‒ the fight against tax evasion by multinational companies can only be achieved through pan-european cooperation to effectively dry up tax havens.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the european parliament's resolution on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect. the eu has no competence in the field of tax law. and that's a good thing. as usual, the institutions are collectively trying to use a scandal at member state level (luxleaks) to unduly extend their powers. the commission therefore hastily presents a proposal for an eu-wide corporate tax law, and parliament debates on issues that are none of its business. all this under a president juncker who was responsible for the scandal in his old office but who in his new one wants nothing to do with it. i can say with good conscience that the most stable barrier to maintaining an eu that is at least rudimentarily competitive is tax competition between member states. it preserves europe's diversity and allows the high-tax continent to be internationally competitive in tax matters. we hope that at least the council will refuse to transfer taxation powers to the eu.
mr president, i was also happy to support this report because i consider the problem of radicalised citizens to be extremely dangerous. the individual countries of the european union cannot solve this problem on their own. if there are today in the middle east some five thousand europeans who are jihadists and who will one day want to return to the european union, then this is an extraordinary danger and a potential source of terrorism. so i am very pleased that there are a number of concrete things in this report, such as a commitment to adopt or complete the work on the passenger name record directive by the end of this year. this is something that's been here for a long time and needs to be finished. i am glad that there is agreement that it will be a criminal offence for european citizens to undergo training with terrorist organisations, and i am very glad that we will finally be able to guard our external borders properly. these are the specific things that i welcome, and that is why i supported the report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the figures are already shocking: 5,000 europeans are fighting in iraq and syria against our own values. they are not the only ones who have been affected by the crisis in the european union, but they are also the ones who have been affected by the crisis in the european union. so it's important to deal with the situation as well. the report is balanced for me. of course we have to improve social conditions - that's right. but on the other hand we also know that, although we can say that the environment shapes people, even if all social issues are settled, evil is probably part of our human existence and we must of course also fight and pursue it by legal means. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in conclusion, i would like to say that we have written enough reports. i also ask for implementation. i would also ask the member states to provide the necessary financial resources.
in writing. ‒ we need to increase our commitment to preventive measures to prevent the increasing radicalisation of young people. the terrorist attacks in paris have brought this problem painfully to our attention once again. this is a serious security problem that we need to solve. it is therefore important to actively support states in implementing preventive measures.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies a number of actions that should be taken at european level to combat terrorism. the recent terrorist attacks in paris in particular have shown the urgency of such measures. the report focuses in particular on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations and calls for an action plan by the commission to this end. the rapporteur highlights, among other things, the problem of radicalisation often taking place in overcrowded prisons, which is why guidelines and training for staff and educational programmes for prisoners to prevent radicalisation in prisons should be implemented. other areas of action include tackling online recruitment, training in educational institutions, the need for an eu directive on passenger name record (pnr) data, and enhanced cooperation between law enforcement agencies in the member states within existing systems. this includes, for example, the schengen information system (sis) and other platforms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i am also of the opinion that the euro must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe!
in writing. ‒ the report identifies a number of actions that should be taken at european level to combat terrorism. the recent terrorist attacks in paris in particular have shown the urgency of such measures. the report focuses in particular on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations and calls for an action plan by the commission to this end. the rapporteur highlights, among other things, the problem of radicalisation often taking place in overcrowded prisons, which is why guidelines and training for staff and educational programmes for prisoners to prevent radicalisation in prisons should be implemented. other areas of action include tackling online recruitment, training in educational institutions, the need for an eu directive on passenger name record (pnr) data, and enhanced cooperation between law enforcement agencies in the member states within existing systems. this includes, for example, the schengen information system (sis) and other platforms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the fdp in the ep supports the basic approach of the report. however, we are opposed to the introduction of a pnr directive. that is why we voted against the report. the problem in europe is not too few security services or insufficient lists of suspects. the problem is rather a lack of cooperation within the eu in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies a number of actions that should be taken at european level to combat terrorism. the recent terrorist attacks in paris in particular have shown the urgency of such measures. the report focuses in particular on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations and calls for an action plan by the commission to this end. the rapporteur highlights, among other things, the problem of radicalisation often taking place in overcrowded prisons, which is why guidelines and training for staff and educational programmes for prisoners to prevent radicalisation in prisons should be implemented. other areas of action include tackling online recruitment, training in educational institutions, the need for an eu directive on passenger name record (pnr) data, and enhanced cooperation between law enforcement agencies in the member states within existing systems. this includes, for example, the schengen information system (sis) and other platforms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies a number of actions that should be taken at european level to combat terrorism. the recent terrorist attacks in paris in particular have shown the urgency of such measures. the report focuses in particular on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations and calls for an action plan by the commission to this end. the rapporteur highlights, among other things, the problem of radicalisation often taking place in overcrowded prisons, which is why guidelines and training for staff and educational programmes for prisoners to prevent radicalisation in prisons should be implemented. other areas of action include tackling online recruitment, training in educational institutions, the need for an eu directive on passenger name record (pnr) data, and enhanced cooperation between law enforcement agencies in the member states within existing systems. this includes, for example, the schengen information system (sis) and other platforms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ the fdp in the ep supports the basic approach of the report. however, we are opposed to the introduction of a pnr directive. that is why we voted against the report. the problem in europe is not too few security services or insufficient lists of suspects. the problem is rather a lack of cooperation within the eu in the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the report identifies a number of actions that should be taken at european level to combat terrorism. the recent terrorist attacks in paris in particular have shown the urgency of such measures. the report focuses in particular on the prevention of radicalisation and recruitment of eu citizens by terrorist organisations and calls for an action plan by the commission to this end. the rapporteur highlights, among other things, the problem of radicalisation often taking place in overcrowded prisons, which is why guidelines and training for staff and educational programmes for prisoners to prevent radicalisation in prisons should be implemented. other areas of action include tackling online recruitment, training in educational institutions, the need for an eu directive on passenger name record (pnr) data, and enhanced cooperation between law enforcement agencies in the member states within existing systems. this includes, for example, the schengen information system (sis) and other platforms. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full.
in writing. ‒ i voted for prevention because some of the established politicians have finally been torn out of their multicultural dream world by the paris attacks and seem to realize that they have not brought diversity and love, but social misery and death with their open door policy. even if not all the points are in line with my political views, it is a step forward for the security of europe's borders and for the internal security of all the countries within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the european parliament resolution on preventing the radicalisation and recruitment of european citizens by terrorist organisations. this report simply ignores the issue. it deals with the radicalisation of eu citizens. in doing so, he navigates around the two real issues: first, the connection between islam and terrorism, and second, the connection between ongoing military intervention around the arabian peninsula and its consequences. he who is silent about the beam in his eye, need not be squadroned by the splinter in his finger.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. it is important and right that the eu has put forward a new strategic framework for better health and safety at work for the more than 217 million workers in the eu for the period 2014-2020. the key to me was that the strategic framework took three things into account: prevention of work-related diseases, taking account of demographic change and better implementing the existing rules. i believe it is important that the more than 20 existing eu laws on health and safety at work are better implemented for the benefit of workers. only when we have succeeded in doing so can we think of new rules. because it is the companies that have to go along. it is mainly small and mediumsized enterprises that have to cope with the flood of regulations. i think that the best practice examples for implementing the directives, as called for in the report, help in this respect. i believe that we have found a good balance between health and safety in this report, and that is why i have agreed to this report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr schulze spoke to me from the heart in his explanation of vote. nevertheless, this is a typical report, and one cannot but agree with it. all the things mentioned are true. we also want to have safety and accident prevention at work, and we want to have european standards for this, of course. but we must be careful not to get bogged down in a flood of red tape which will ultimately be a burden on small and micro-enterprises in particular. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to say that the commission has not been able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is properly functioning. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it.
in writing. ‒ we need a package of measures to reduce health risks in the workplace in a targeted way, while promoting the health and safety of workers. one key to success is a clear separation between work and private life. it is also important to take the necessary precautions. what we need is a fair distribution of the burden without over-regulation. in particular, new rules must be quick and easy to implement for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are already heavily burdened by international competition and the economic crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the christensen report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020. in general, the report contains some good points which are intended to improve safety at work and reduce red tape for small businesses. however, paragraph 26 calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive legal instrument on musculoskeletal disorders (msds). in fact, msds are some of the most common causes of illness in everyday working life, which is why there are national regulations in place. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the attempt by the eec group to remove the mse regulation from the text failed, which is why i did not agree to the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the christensen report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020. in general, the report contains some good points which are intended to improve safety at work and reduce red tape for small businesses. however, paragraph 26 calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive legal instrument on musculoskeletal disorders (msds). in fact, msds are some of the most common causes of illness in everyday working life, which is why there are national regulations in place. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the attempt by the eec group to remove the mse regulation from the text failed, which is why i did not agree to the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the christensen report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020. in general, the report contains some good points which are intended to improve safety at work and reduce red tape for small businesses. however, paragraph 26 calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive legal instrument on musculoskeletal disorders (msds). in fact, msds are some of the most common causes of illness in everyday working life, which is why there are national regulations in place. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the attempt by the eec group to remove the mse regulation from the text failed, which is why i did not agree to the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the christensen report on the eu strategic framework for health and safety at work 2014-2020. in general, the report contains some good points which are intended to improve safety at work and reduce red tape for small businesses. however, paragraph 26 calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive legal instrument on musculoskeletal disorders (msds). in fact, msds are some of the most common causes of illness in everyday working life, which is why there are national regulations in place. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the attempt by the eec group to remove the mse regulation from the text failed, which is why i did not agree to the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. safety regulations at the workplace are primarily a national task. the eu has never failed to demonstrate in a sustainable way that it is adding value to this important issue today. the eu commission even implicitly admits this, because its eu strategic framework for health and safety at work, while containing many important areas for action, sets out concrete objectives. this shows that the eu is keen to tackle a subject here, but cannot because the member states and national legislation can regulate this policy area quite well without the eu.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the elimination of violence against women in the eu by iratxe garcía pérez, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000126/2015 - b8-1105/2015) (2015/2855 (((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not since 2004, parliament has regularly spoken about violence against women. there is the un's cedaw programme, the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. there is the eu daphne programme, which is an implementation of the un programme. but what is violence against women? are we not all against violence - especially against the weak, including women? of course we are. but the eu would not be the eu, and the un would not be the un, if they did not sometimes hide their ideas behind words. words are politics. words are politics. can you even oppose a resolution condemning violence against women? no, you can't. and by the way, no violence against men and boys. but beware: according to the un definition, it is violence against women if they cannot have an abortion because it is forbidden, for example. a woman who is not allowed to have an abortion is then a victim of violence in statistics. no matter how you stand on abortion, that's the wrong way to go. let's be honest in politics: we all reject violence against women.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. in europe, 18% of women have been victims of stalking since the age of 15. about 12% of girls have experienced some form of sexual abuse or assault by an adult before the age of 15, and one in 20 women has been raped since the age of 15. violence against women is still a big problem with a high cover-up rate, as many women are afraid to report it. violence against women is often still tolerated socially. we need a europe-wide strategy to combat violence against women.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the outcome of the valletta summit of 11 and 12 november 2015 and the g20 summit of 15 and 16 november 2015 (2015/2902 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think the message that came out of valetta and antalya was as clear as it was right. the international community must come together and shoulder its responsibilities to meet the global challenges of our time. of course, we europeans must take responsibility, as has been made clear today. however, the european union is not alone in tackling, for example, irregular migration. the african countries themselves can thus contribute. it's about better governance, it's about economic growth, it's about creating opportunities for young people in their home countries and better involving civil society. the european union is helping in a very concrete way - this has been emphasized - through, for example, the emergency relief trust fund for african states. in any case, one thing is certain: valetta is only the beginning of a longer process of systematically addressing the challenge of migration flows. i would like to make one further comment on the antalya summit. the g20 countries have been sent a strong signal that they are stronger than terrorism. and this challenge cannot be met by military means alone. a wide range of measures is now necessary. the european intelligence services must therefore cooperate more closely than ever before. the so-called foreign fighters returning to europe must be monitored more closely. at european level, including here in parliament, we must work to complete rapidly the ongoing data-related projects such as the passenger data directive and the data protection directive, and our european agencies such as frontex and europol should be strengthened. i therefore agree with the request made by my group in this morning's debate: that words, agreements and decisions must now be followed by action!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are very much in agreement with what happened in valletta. a comprehensive partnership with african states is important to both sides. it's not just about refugees, it's not just about repatriation. it is about better living conditions there and about concrete aid for good governance, aid for the economic development and expansion of the states for the people living there, including refugees. you can't do that without money. i very much hope, mrs mogherini, that the member states will not let you down again, that they will replenish the funds you mentioned by making additional payments. because we have to do our own part, or we'll end up with all the bills at once, and that's what we'll call a refugee crisis. i also agree with him and believe that the colleague from the efdd who is leaving has made a mistake. yes, turkey must also receive money from us. but it is not money for mr erdoğan to build a new palace, but for the people there - the refugees - to have better living conditions than they have had so far and so that they do not all feel that they have to continue running to central and northern europe. you can also live a normal life there for a while. i think that is something we should support and i hope that at the next summit the heads of state or government of the member states will support it in the same way. there is one point on which i disagree with you, mr mcallister. that is what the antalya summit is about. what you said about the refugee issue cannot be overstated in general terms: the scale of the ongoing refugee crisis is a global one. wow! there is a need for a co-ordinated and comprehensive response. we call upon all states to contribute. no, what we would have expected from the countries which have expressed themselves so well is what they want to contribute concretely to solving this problem, and there really has been nothing but air bubbles on the refugee question.
mr president, in the valletta conclusions, you are saying that the first priority should always be to rescue lives, and i can very much agree with that. it is a pity that those calls are usually missing from council conclusions, unfortunately. it is indeed a very noble call, but what do we see happening in practice? in practice, there is hardly any legal way for refugees to enter the european union to find the protection that we actually want to give to those people. refugees still have to risk their lives crossing the mediterranean in very small boats, and one of the very few legal possibilities for refugees to come to europe in a safe way is now under attack. that is family unification. we all should be able to sympathise with family unification. no one wants to be separated from their family, and to be together with your family is also a vital part of integration. but now several governments are attacking the possibility for refugees to be reunited with the family they had to leave behind – that they lost on their way to europe. i think this is outrageous, and it is absolutely inhumane. we should never stop family unification – the right of children to be together with their parents, the right of parents to be together with their brothers, sisters and their children. currently we do indeed have a lot of refugees in europe, because there are a lot of reasons why people have to flee. but if we all stood together as the european union and acted in unison, we could easily face this challenge. therefore, i want to ask the council what initiatives it is planning to get all member states on board to help in facing this challenge in a humane fashion. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– colleague, the most effective way to address traffickers and fight smugglers is to open legal and safe ways for refugees.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. both summits have shown what mistakes we have made in the past, otherwise they would not have been necessary. instead of helping people where they are from, where they are at home, we are dealing today with refugee flows of millions of people. why are they running? you always talk about flight and displacement, but 80% of them are poverty refugees. they flee because they have no prospects in their own homeland. i can imagine that mrs mogherini has a hard time arguing with these countries at summits like this. nor is it given the means to change it. what is the point of giving 3.5 billion to the turks today to build refugee camps where generations of refugees can live like the palestinians, to keep them from europe? what good is it to talk about returning to africa when people are forced to flee because they have no prospects for themselves, their families and their future?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the valletta and antalya summits were not decisive. a steady stream of migrants is still reaching europe, and the division in the eu is deafening. while more and more countries are closing their borders, mrs merkel wants to open europe to everyone. the more sensible eu governments are not going along with this. the eu is particularly dependent on cooperation. merkel's single-handedness has done tremendous damage here. it is astonishing that practically the entire german bundestag, which is usually very pro-european, accepts this permanent damage to the eu. it would be helpful if the parties in germany would take note of the european reality and the different opinions of our neighbours. the quotas now being called for by mrs merkel and propagated in germany are just another word for introducing ceilings. the situation is slowly coming to terms with reality in germany and europe. but it would be better to finally go forward with courage instead of always running behind.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu-africa summit in valletta was a difficult meeting at a difficult time. but we must all be clear: this was the starting point of a longer process said chancellor angela merkel. i would add, critically, that this is a process which you all started much too late. we are treating in the current refugee crisis symptoms whose causes have been growing for decades. we have too often measured ourselves by european standards and thought that solutions for africa had to be made in europe - a gross mistake. europe's partnership with africa must be put to the test. we need new approaches: working together on equal terms, not destroying each other's brains. we need real support: community services such as health, education, disaster relief, infrastructure, electricity and drinking water guarantees. this has to be financed by a financial transaction tax in the ridiculous zero-comma range. it works. valletta was a much too late start: the real work has only just begun.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. both the g20 summit and the valletta summit focused on migration. the conclusions contain much information on how to combat the causes of absconding. the action plan with the african countries was also stressed and the importance of such a development policy was emphasised. but now there is also a trade policy which is countering all that development policy is trying to do. the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. for example, a european agricultural policy that is heavily focused on exports has the disadvantage of destroying local markets there. or trade agreements like ttip, which set standards that act as trade barriers for emerging countries and thus exclude them from the market. i think that a structural change in trade policy is therefore urgently needed, because money alone cannot combat the causes of flight.
president-in-office of the council,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, i am changing my mind, but this is actually a kind of extension of the debate we have just had, since when we talk about the crisis in africa and the refugee problem, because there are many refugees from burundi in the neighbouring countries of burundi, we are quite in the theme discussed this afternoon. there have been a number of emergency debates and resolutions on burundi in the last year. sadly, the situation in the country remains extremely grave, and we believe it is fully justified that we address this issue once again this evening. both the european union ministers of foreign affairs and the united nations security council have expressed themselves on burundi in the last ten days. on the negative side, there is broad recognition that, on a daily basis, violence in burundi has reached an extremely dangerous level and that it has been exacerbated by the use of inflammatory and irresponsible language. unfortunately, we have had to condemn once again the violations of human rights and, of course, to express our solidarity with all the victims and the families of the victims. among those who have suffered is mr pierre claver mbonimpa, the human rights defender who is well known and well respected in this house. the humanitarian community has not been spared either, with the death recently of a staff member of the international organization for migration. i repeat the eu's absolute condemnation of human rights violations and of violence, whoever is responsible. more positively, we believe there is now a strong international consensus encouraging burundi to get behind african-led processes which, in the assessment of the eu, provide the only viable way out of the crisis. most important among these are the implementation of decisions on burundi already taken by the african union and the east african community, and cooperation with the mediation efforts being undertaken by uganda on behalf of the east african community. the decision of the ruling party to nominate president nkurunziza as a presidential candidate earlier this year created a serious division across society and across politics. that division needs to be addressed urgently and comprehensively. i would like to say a word on un security council resolution 2248, which is, of course, welcomed by the eu. there are three elements in this resolution which i want to stress tonight. firstly, the resolution calls on the government of burundi and all parties to reject any kind of violence, and demands that all parties in burundi refrain from any action which would threaten peace and stability in the country. secondly, it calls on the government of burundi to respect, protect and guarantee human rights and fundamental freedoms for all, in line with the country's international obligations. thirdly, it urges the government of burundi to cooperate with the east african community-led mediation to enable it to immediately convene an inclusive and genuine inter-burundian dialogue in order to find a consensual and nationally-owned solution to the current crisis. you are all aware of the humanitarian situation, and in particular the pressure on facilities in rwanda, tanzania and the democratic republic of congo. to date, we have allocated eur 9 million to respond to the burundian refugee crisis in the great lakes region. at a time when there are many conflicting priorities, we must ensure that attention is not diverted from the very real needs which the current crisis has caused. but at the same time we need to address root causes, and in particular violence and the rule of law. we announced in the summer that we would consider the adoption of individual restrictive measures against those linked to human rights abuses or to obstructing the search for a political solution. we have followed up on that by adopting measures against a number of individuals and will consider broadening the list if circumstances require it. we also undertook to prepare for the special consultations which are foreseen under article 96 of the cotonou agreement. we have also followed up on that, inviting the burundian authorities at the end of october to participate in a first meeting, which we hope could be held in december. there are a number of points i wish to stress about article 96 consultations. first, we want them to focus on the areas where we believe there has been a breach of the cotonou agreement and, in particular, human rights and the rule of law. secondly, the talks are time-limited. we should focus on objectives which are achievable in a three- to four-month period and which lead the way to a longer-term strategy to exit the crisis. thirdly, the consultations will support the activities of the african union and the east african community, encouraging as far as possible the implementation of the decisions already taken by those bodies and encouraging cooperation with them in mediation, observation and facilitation activities. finally, and most importantly, we will enter the talks with a positive spirit. the aim is to find a mutually-agreed solution and not to punish. the cotonou agreement allows for appropriate measures, including the cutting of aid, but the eu will take all steps to avoid actions which could put at risk already vulnerable populations. this is a point which commissioner mimica has stressed to this house before, and it remains true today. to illustrate this, while the eu has needed to make some changes to its assistance package, suspending its electoral support of eur 8 million in june, withholding budget support payments and putting on hold the finalisation of the annual action programme for 2015, at the same time we are committed to preparing major programmes on health and nutrition, ensuring that funding on existing actions, including those of the 11th edf 2014 annual action programme of eur 60.7 million, is used for its intended purpose. i mentioned earlier focus on the rule of law and human rights. this means in practice that we need to concentrate on some specific areas, which i know are of concern to members of this house: the media environment, the situation of civil society and human rights defenders, the justice system and disarmament. arising under these are a number of specific cases of concern, which have been raised in previous debates here. the eu has been supporting burundi in its efforts to consolidate democracy since the arusha agreement put an end to years of civil war and laid the foundations for a new era. the spirit of these agreements is for us at the heart of the search for a solution to the crisis. i look very much forward to hearing the views of honourable members.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the conflicts in the middle east and africa are of direct concern to us. the debate has shown that all day. and so we have to speak here for the third time this year about the situation in burundi. after president nkurunziza and his aides secured office in july by violating the constitution and abusing elections, the horror stories continue to spread throughout the country. opposition figures, journalists are being persecuted, more than 200 people have already been killed, and more than 200,000 have fled the country. the refugee camps in neighbouring countries, especially in tanzania, are already overcrowded. the people there are already suffering because the supply can no longer be maintained. that is why we have had enough of the resolutions, we must act! the arusha process is no longer effective on the ground, according to the unanimous opinion of eyewitnesses. others have already taken sanctions: the president of the united states just yesterday or the day before yesterday announced sanctions against leading figures in the nkurunziza regime. the un security council - the minister has mentioned it - has adopted a unanimous resolution condemning not only the persecution and killing of people, but also the resumption of the blue helmets mission which was in the country until 2005 and helped to end the civil war. i think that the negotiating mandate which the commission had is coming to an end here too. of course we want to help the people on the ground, but all support for the nkurunziza regime should be stopped. and also that burundi is sending 5,000 troops, who we have paid for, into the conflict in somalia should no longer be a reason, but rather a means of pressure on the regime to finally stop oppressing and persecuting its own people.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council! thank you for your kind words. i'll take that as a compliment to the work of the entire mission and pass it along. my mandate is still running until the final report is handed over. i shall therefore make every effort to maintain the neutrality attached to the office of chief observer in my remarks here. but one thing is clear: these were truly historic elections. anyone with a political sense of the matter could see the hope that this election held in the country. it was good that the european union could make a constructive contribution to this, both in advance and through this observation mission. two things were particularly gratifying: one is that there was virtually no election-related violence -- neither before nor after that was a problem. secondly, many of the problems that were expected before the elections did not appear on the day of the elections. the biggest problem, the biggest fear, was about the voter roll. people were generally well found in the lists, so there was no disturbance there either. this result - charles tannock has just pointed out a strange constitutional situation, which we also talked about in our previous report - is now bringing the country into a very delicate transition phase, and i would like the european union to remain involved with all its institutions, to remain committed to helping the country through this. let me say this: the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. there's no reason to this time. the european parliament, the chief observer, the delegation, judith sargentini, who will continue to accompany the country on its way to democracy as permanent rapporteur, have worked very well with the european external action service. we have worked very well with the commission, with the instruments of foreign policy and, in particular, with the delegation headed by a really good ambassador, roland kobia, whom we are fortunate to have there. so it is a good example of good cooperation between the european institutions. let us hope that the country will also develop well under the commitment of the europeans.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm glad you're still allowed to sit in front of a european flag. your prime minister should take a lesson from that! georgia is an important and emerging partner for us. the citizens of georgia are important to us as europeans because they are oriented towards the european union, because they work with us. we want to see it in our system of order, we want to see it in our economic space, because that is how the zone of stability in our neighbourhood grows. our commitment to georgia is not without conditions. we expect respect for human and civil rights, we expect the rule of law, we expect pluralism in democracy. these expectations are also shared by the citizens of georgia. georgians support modernization and reform. this is something that politicians and parties must deal with more carefully than ever before. i am not a georgian, nor am i an italian, but i like passion in politics and leadership in political action. but it's wrong when political zeal destroys cooperation among democrats. it is wrong for politics to exhaust itself in the struggle for power. it is wrong if the opposition cannot play its constitutional role. and it would be wrong to turn on the media. georgian citizens have expectations of politics: that problems will be solved, that progress will be made, that their country can develop in a european way, free from the patronage and interference of the great neighbor russia. this will be possible if georgian politics fosters social cohesion, if it works for the common goal, if our european dream becomes the dream of all georgians!
member of the commission.– mr president, colleagues, as i said in my opening statement, we closely monitor whether our shared principles are respected. we do this as partners, together with georgia and in the conviction that strengthening democracy and the rule of law, while ensuring a transparent, prosperous and stable georgia, is in our common best interest, which is fully in line with the priorities set out in the european neighbourhood policy (enp) review. during her visit, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission, federica mogherini, was encouraged by the constructive tone taken by the government and by the parliamentary faction leaders in georgia. they acknowledge the need to maintain the focus on reforms and to create a safe space for campaigning ahead of next year’s parliamentary elections. there was a question on the issue of visa liberalisation. the visa liberalisation process is based on the outcome of evaluation missions carried out at the end of september/early october and with information provided by the georgian authorities. we will be reporting on the state of play in december, i.e. next month. once a final report is issued, the commission will be in a position to present a legislative proposal to lift the visa obligation. the decision to do so will then lie with the european parliament and the council, and the time that would be needed to decide upon such a proposal is difficult to predict, as you know. let me conclude by saying that the eu-georgia association agreement is a concrete way to activate the full potential of our relations. the focus is on support for core reforms – which are essential – and, of course, on economic recovery and growth, governance and sector-based cooperation, for example in the fields of transport, energy and the environment. we are doing all of this in an optimistic manner because we are in politics, and we believe this is the way forward.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– mr president, this is the first time that moldova has come back to the plenary since the ratification of the association agreement one year ago. several events have taken place since the debate of last year, including parliamentary elections in november 2014 and, of course, a succession of two short-lived governments. all of you have followed the developments in moldova since then, especially those concerning the big banking frauds, amounting to around usd 1 billion, which is around 12% of the gdp of the country, and the large protest movements and demonstrations which culminated at the beginning of september with a big gathering in chișinău. while the banking scandal was at the centre of the demonstrations, people have been expressing their discontent more widely, demanding sustainable governance for the country and calling for corruption to be decisively tackled. despite a decrease in intensity – probably in the expectation of political developments – these protests are still ongoing. the protesters are demanding the resignation of the president and the dismissal of the prosecutor general and the head of the national anti—corruption centre. they are also asking for the launch of a referendum on the direct election of the president. recent developments – namely, the arrest of former prime minister filat on 15 october and the subsequent dismissal of the government in a vote of no—confidence on 29 october – dramatically demonstrate the deep divide that has developed between the political parties that were coalition partners. as the eu, it is not our role to interfere in the internal political processes of a sovereign country. it is for the moldovan political forces to put aside personal and group interests and to work together for the sake of their country. it is for them to make the political choices that take into account the welfare of their citizens, to help modernise the country and make the economy grow. these are the political choices that the european union wants and is ready to support. we will continue to call for dialogue among the parties. in order to find sustainable solutions to the governance crisis and certainly in order to address pressing needs, we hope that a new government will pursue, as a matter of priority, the implementation of much-needed key reforms. vested interests and corruption practices currently hinder development in the country and have a heavy impact on citizens’ everyday lives. moldovan society expects these challenges to be tackled seriously. that was the message of the eu-moldova parliamentary association committee in its debates and statement on 21 and 22 september 2015. i am also aware of the frank exchanges the committee on foreign affairs had with the speaker of the moldovan parliament mr candu at the beginning of last week. we have to remind our moldovan partners that our support is conditional upon the implementation of key and genuine reforms and policies. this should contribute not only to regaining the trust of citizens but also to building a more resilient country and offering a democratic and stable business environment. any new government will face the challenge of dealing, as one of its first actions, with the banking frauds through comprehensive, impartial and effective investigations, with the goal of recovering the diverted funds. moldovan society will expect any new government to take clear and effective steps against corruption and to proceed with reforming the banking sector, the justice sector and, at the same time, public administration. moldova is obviously in a difficult economic and financial situation and will need the support of the imf. this will mean fulfilling certain conditions on energy tariffs, on the restructuring of the banking sector, and on the management of the national bank. these are also essential preconditions for a possible resumption of eu budget-support disbursements, as well as for the implementation of our ambitious association agenda. the situation, as i have already described, reflects problems in the political system and, of course, the gap between the political system and society. this is, unfortunately, the situation, and this is why we need, together with this parliament, to apply all those preconditions which i have already mentioned.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think, commissioner, that you are right in your present description of moldova. we must see that the three pro-european parties won the elections albeit by a narrow margin , but that they were unable to build trust since the elections, and were unable to advance with credibility the stated objectives of modernising the country, the rule of law and the fight against corruption. on the other hand, there are many in these parties who have the will to achieve these goals. i can say as a member of parliament that these political forces should be supported in finally putting a decent, pro-european government in place now, because the alternative is a disaster. for this reason, i believe that the european union, the political families in this house, those who are connected with the parties there, should organise the necessary cooperation here and help the moldovans to make their decision on the path they will take, on which government they will form, but that we have made an offer of cooperation and that for this reason we hope that the responsibility of all those involved will emerge to do so in a way that is in the interests of good development. this is no longer a time for personal advantage, this is no longer a time for party games of the past, this is a moment for real commitment in the interests of the moldovan people. i hope that the discussions which are to take place in the coming days will lead to such decisions and that this should not fail because of the political characteristics and the dependencies, because then the result is necessarily bad. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in just seven years, four parliamentary elections, five governments, numerous changes in the occupation of leading state offices, endless squabbles among the political elites, and repeated corruption, have left even well-meaning analysts in moldova in a state of confusion. since the recent government crisis, the image has been that the former model pupil of the eastern partnership has become a state in the grip of corrupt oligarchs. let me emphasize this: that is the real problem, because nothing has happened in moldova just now, it has just not been looked at very carefully for a long time. what analysts have recently described as 'systemic failure' has always been the case: despite elections, the political system is unstable and corrupt, and despite widespread liberalization, the economy is still largely dependent on external aid. of course, some things have been done with the help of the eu. but what is the point of regular elections when political and economic power are not only linked but are virtually one? what is the value of expensive consultations on judicial reform if basic norms are still violated, for example by simply detaining an opposition leader and activists of peaceful protests against the corruption of the ruling oligarchs for months on end, exposing them to high health risks and severely restricting their rights, some of which are clearly targeted? the public is increasingly questioning both the direction of the reforms being pursued and the integrity of the political class driving them, a class that, while formally and verbally committed to eu values, then acts according to the oligarchs' own rules. let me stress that we must not allow the credibility of the european union to be further undermined by an alliance with the wrong people in moldova. the commission is called upon to ensure full compliance with the association agreement. this is in line with the expectations of many social actors in the country.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i can unfortunately repeat many of the elements of my speech on georgia in relation to moldova on the principle of copy/paste. moldova is important to us as a direct neighbour. the citizens of moldova are important to us as europeans because they have associated themselves with the european union, because they work with us. we want to see it in our system of order, we want to see it in our economic space, because that is how the zone of stability in our neighbourhood grows. our commitment to moldova is not without conditions. we expect respect for human and civil rights, we expect the rule of law, we expect pluralism in democracy, we expect clean politics. this is also the expectation of the citizens of moldova. the moldovans have supported modernisation and reforms. they expect the state and the economy to stabilize. the oligarchs are fighting for power instead. above all, the citizens now want an explanation of the crimes: where is the billion that was stolen from the banks? i would like our intelligence services to make their findings available to the moldovans so that the money can be identified and returned. the country needs a government that is active. the country needs an independent attorney general. the country needs effective anti-corruption. the european union must set strict conditions. a detailed contract might help. it must set out the steps and timetable for reform. eu experts must push this route through the ministries. our support must be made dependent on it. the citizens of moldova want better living conditions. the country cannot afford to lose any more citizens. we do not want to lose moldova as an eu partner. we must not lose time. i accept that the epp will exert influence on the parties concerned who are in contact with us in the spirit of this agenda which we have all set out.
i have to say, madam president, every year, again, this year two references. firstly, on the spending side of europe in the world: unfortunately we have to accept a drastic increase in the number of errors in the areas relevant to foreign policy, and the handling of crisis states is sensitive now also under the keyword refugees. the eu must therefore take more responsibility directly and not just blindly trust the aid agencies. secondly, as regards the court's approach to the investigation, yes, the pan-european qualitative sample approach is effective and gets things straight. however, working with samples is also susceptible to manipulation. is it a coincidence that last year's outliers spain and greece are suddenly supposed to have a reliable administration? i would like to make one point: without the accompanying country reports, the court's overall report does not go to the root of the real causes of fraud and error. mr caldeira, please create more trust and transparency by really looking at individual countries and not hiding behind the big picture!
i have to say, madam president, i am grateful to mr caldeira and the court of auditors for the 2014 discharge report. i don't think he's useless, on the contrary. what bothers me is that the commission is represented but the council is not. 80% of the european budget is spent through the paying agencies and the managers of funds in the member states. that's where the mistakes are made. i think that the council should also be interested in joining us in this debate on how we can reduce the high error rates which continue to exist, because we will only achieve this together. the other is that i am very grateful to the court of auditors for pointing out that there is a discrepancy between the payments we made last year and this year, which relate to the old funding period, when we should have been working towards the europe 2020 objectives long ago. i think that is also a debate we should have in the coming days and months.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank the european court of auditors for its work, which is far from useless but which gives us new ideas on where we can continue to work. i want to address two remarks you made in your presentation. on the one hand, member states do not make sufficient use of the information available to them to avoid errors. on the other hand, member states cannot use all the resources that the eu has at their disposal. the conclusion i draw from this is that some member states, in the context of the negotiations on the medium-term financial framework, are trying to bring home as much money as possible and then they are not quite sure what to do with it. i think that a solution lies in the revision of the medium-term financial framework, because the eu budget is not only underfunded, it also seems to be misallocated. the second point i want to raise is the state of the national control authorities responsible for spending eu money. what will the commission do to improve the situation here?
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i can only say that, thank god, these people are not members of the committee on budgetary control, and perhaps that is why they do not know what they are talking about. i would like to thank you very much for the very useful report. i would personally like to see more recommendations, even more recommendations, so that we can continue to follow them. we are dealing with a lot of old problems. i would like to draw your attention to the difference in the error rate between the commission and the court of auditors in the case of the structural funds. although the court of auditors has moved its figures towards the commission, there is still a considerable difference which can no longer be explained by methodological differences, and which raises lasting doubts about the whole control system and, above all, about the will to control. i would like to thank the court of auditors for the performance chapter. if we have a quarter of the structural fund projects which do not achieve any of the policy objectives, we have to be concerned. thank you for this chapter and for your work.
the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the application of the aid scheme. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have the impression that with such motions for resolutions the asylum lobby is trying to prevent the return of afghan migrants. we simply have to declare that the policy in afghanistan the military operation has failed. we should also, before we deal with afghanistan, cambodia or bangladesh, deal with the human rights violations in europe and go back to our own doorstep. because in france, artists like diendonné are being prosecuted for politically incorrect opinions. in austria, you go to jail for 15 to 20 years for politically incorrect opinions. in germany, an 87-year-old woman, mrs haverbeck, was recently sentenced for her opinions, 12 000 investigations for offences of opinion in germany, 1 000 sentences with prison sentences in germany speak a language of their own. in germany, they want to ban a party, the npd. in greece the political leadership has been imprisoned and a party is also being banned. you should avoid such things in europe before you do them elsewhere.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution because we need to integrate developing countries into world trade quickly. we urgently need the swift ratification and implementation of the trade facilitation agreement. the eu as a global trading partner will also benefit from this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i also see these measures as an effective complement to our development policy.
in writing. ‒ the inta committee has outlined its objectives in regards to the tenth ministerial conference of the wto in nairobi. one of the goals is the ratification of the trade facilitation agreement, but it remains unsure whether that will be possible. since the possibility of reaching an agreement on the doha round appears slim, the main question is what can be delivered independently from the tfa and what role the wto should play in case an agreement cannot be reached. should a multilateral agreement not be reached, the resolution therefore calls for innovative thinking on certain issues, such as development for the least developed countries, the information technology agreement and the environmental goods agreement. given these two initiatives that my group and i strongly support and the general nature of the resolution, i have voted in favour of it. by the way, in my opinion the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the doha development agenda because, while it is right to support countries in crisis and to ensure that local people do not have to leave their country, it is wrong to take away the sovereignty of these countries to make their own decisions. it may sound good to give these countries financial aid, but you cannot use the money to buy power and then have a say in the countries concerned! every country has the right to self-determination, even if it is financially supported!
i have to say, madam president, not everything is good in ecuador we know that, and there would be some things to criticize. but improving trade relations means, above all, opening up prospects - above all economic prospects - for people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if you will, the old adage is true here: change through trade. i therefore agreed to the request and look forward to the deepening of economic relations with ecuador. i am also pleased with the improvements that we can then achieve through this change, through this trade, also for human rights.
in writing. ‒ this is another step towards intensifying future cooperation with fast-growing countries. the agreement also allows for the expansion of direct investment and trade volumes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of ecuador's accession to the trade agreement between the eu on the one hand and peru and colombia on the other. new trade relations with overseas countries are good and right for europe's relations with non-european countries, as long as the eu does not dare to interfere in the economies of trading countries through such agreements. as long as the quality of the goods is impeccable and ecologically sound, i see no reason why we should not enter into negotiations with ecuador and establish new political and economic relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu and peru and colombia. unfortunately, the lisbon treaty has given the eu competence for free trade agreements. in this context, the eu has concluded a free trade agreement with peru and colombia, which ecuador is now joining. i am very much in favour of promoting world trade and trade with individual countries. however, this should preferably be done in a unilateral manner, with the eu unilaterally removing its trade restrictions through tariffs and other measures. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new barriers to trade.
madam president, i supported this report, but i expect that the report to be drawn up by the european commission for the next years, 2016-2020, as called for by the european commission in this document, will be more ambitious than the current approach of the european union. i believe that respect for animals as living creatures is part of the ethical standards of our developed european society, and i would personally like, for example, to see a ban on so-called fur farms, that is, the treatment of animals for fur, which is a very strong topic today, for example in my country of origin, the czech republic. it would be good if this matter were dealt with uniformly throughout the european union. so i hope that the next strategy will be more ambitious than the european union's current approach.
i have to say, madam president, i too could agree to the resolution because it was balanced. i must also say that if you look at the development of european agriculture fairly, you will find that not only has public interest in animal welfare increased, but there have also been real improvements. however, it is true that there is still a lot to be done here. we must continue to work on the problem. but i must emphasize at least three points which i would have liked to have made more clear in the resolution: first of all, we must of course take into account the fact that we have a european single market. it is not possible that we should then allow differences between member states, because that would only mean shifting animal cruelty from one member state to another. secondly, we must also look at the fact that we have world trade and we must also see that if we import animal products, then of course the same standards apply. and thirdly, i wish we had included pet ownership in the animal welfare considerations, because there are still a lot of things going on out of control. there is still a lot to be done, but we should continue to discuss this together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposals to improve animal welfare, as animal welfare has traditionally been a core concern of national home-protection policies and therefore any initiative aiming at improvements deserves support. as gandhi so aptly put it, "the greatness and moral progress of a nation can be measured by the way it treats its animals". europe should be measured by such standards.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the motion for a resolution on a new animal welfare strategy for the period 2016-2020. the measures seem to me to be well balanced. the amendments tabled by the left and the greens with a view to better protecting certain animals - fish, pigs, laying hens, game, etc. - have been rejected by the bank because they have always called for action by the european commission. i am, however, against any major shift of responsibility to the eu. i do not therefore exclude the possibility of supporting individual projects at national level. but the eu should benefit from its diversity, which is best ensured by finding different solutions to difficult and controversial issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution because we need to find ways of integrating the most vulnerable refugees as far and as quickly as possible. this can only be achieved by unrestricted access to education and the learning and knowledge of our language, our social systems and cultures.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because, although children are our future, as we know, this resolution is being proposed as a fraudulent package to enforce the minority policy of the asylum lobbyists in europe. of course, children should be supported and encouraged all over the world, but first and foremost in their own country and not as nomads in europe! the children are not to blame, but the parents. but this approach must not be supported by an education policy which is aimed at continuing to attract economic refugees to europe, who are only promising themselves a better life and a better education.
in writing. ‒ i did not vote in favour of the european parliament resolution on education for children in emergency situations and protracted crises. the european union is not the one to set the framework for this, despite all the emotional understanding and the perfectly reasonable reasons for wanting to help children in emergency situations. real humanitarian and charitable aid takes place in the interpersonal context. it is not a task for parliaments, but for people who want to practice charity. any interference by the eu, the national states or even the authorities in general hinders the private involvement which i believe is crucial here. sometimes less is more, especially in the interpersonal sphere, if we want to maintain social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal because, while it facilitates the public administration, it also restricts national rights and severely limits the self-determination of the member states. proposals such as these clearly show how the eu is trying to move beyond the co-determination of its member states and increasingly restrict national law. this cannot and must not be the aim of a european community!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the simplification and performance of cohesion policy 2014-2020. reducing bureaucracy is a noble goal. if the eu ever decides to make nails with heads here, i will be happy to support it as i have done here. i believe that, regardless of this, cohesion policy is itself a great evil. the diversity and differences in europe should not be diminished by brussels' support for projects from a dim, one-sided perspective. i think that this is a huge waste of money.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on thursday 26 november 2015.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the agenda has three embarrassing votes and seven debates - nothing of absolute urgency! i call on the bureau to consider an immediate suspension of the unnecessary and costly microplane meetings in brussels. i don't think anyone needs that here.
i'm not going to let you go. this was not on the agenda for the approval of the minutes of the previous sitting. we will nevertheless take your contribution to the record. the minutes of the meeting of 26 november were approved.
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the eu-turkey summit (2015/3004 (rsp)).
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank you for inviting the council presidency to take part in this debate on cooperation with turkey and in particular on the results of the summit held on sunday. the presidency welcomes the outcome of this summit, which was organized on the initiative of the president of the european council and which you attended throughout, mr president. the first vice-president of the commission, mr timmermans, who negotiated the action plan with the turkish authorities, should also be thanked and congratulated for his commitment. this summit meeting was very timely, because it was able to address issues of vital importance to the security of the union. our relations with turkey, particularly in the present context, are of considerable importance, both on migration issues and in the wider context of our relations. we share many common interests with turkey and our cooperation is indispensable in the face of the three major crises affecting us and turkey. firstly, the war in syria and the absolute need to find a political solution to this particularly deadly and destabilising conflict. the second is the refugee problem, which is directly linked to this conflict, and finally terrorism, which has hit paris, but has also hit turkey and elsewhere and which must be fought relentlessly. the summit has produced concrete results and confirmed the need for increased cooperation and regular dialogue. the revitalization of our relations, the liberalization of the visa regime, the rules on readmission, and humanitarian and financial aid for the 2 million refugees in syria are precisely concrete results. it must also be said that everything we have agreed with turkey must nevertheless encourage us to continue what we are doing within the european union. all the measures concerning better surveillance of our borders, better control of our external borders, relocation policies, the various other border measures must of course be continued, so we must implement everything that has been decided and everything that has yet to be decided must be done quickly. you will understand, mr president, that it is not the presidency's place to present the summit's outcome in detail. it would be more appropriate if the vice-president, the first vice-president of the commission, were to give you his assessment of this meeting. however, as the summit's final declaration noted, all the elements agreed on sunday will have to be developed in parallel and carefully evaluated. and this also applies to the accession process, whereby all the conditions applicable to all the applicant countries are of course also applicable to turkey. the council will pay particular attention to ensuring that the measures adopted last sunday are implemented in full and in a spirit of solidarity. and of course parliament will be fully informed of the follow-up to these decisions.
first vice-president of the commission.– mr president, president jean-claude juncker has asked me to debrief you on his behalf since i was also at the summit. by the way, president schulz, you yourself were at the summit. you intervened and you were there for the whole duration of the summit, so parliament was very well represented and was an integral part of our decision-making. i hope president schulz will share jean-claude juncker’s view and my view that this summit was fruitful and opened a new chapter in the eu’s partnership with turkey. since april, the eu has held four meetings at heads of state and government level to discuss the migration crisis. at each of these meetings we said it was necessary to engage with turkey – and this is what we did on sunday. it is clear that we need to cooperate to secure our borders, jointly to bring order into migratory flows, and to stem irregular migration. but the focus of the summit went far beyond the current refugee crisis. turkey is a strategic partner for europe in many areas: trade, the economy, foreign policy, energy and customs. at the summit, we reached agreement on how to move forward in all key areas of our cooperation. we agreed on the need for a structured, frequent and more dynamic high-level dialogue. we decided to have summits twice a year to discuss mutual relations and international issues. we hope that the meeting created a new partnership both on refugee-related matters and beyond. to name one example, the recent and atrocious attacks in paris and ankara – including a bomb again last night – showed how europe and turkey are confronted by the same security threats, and they reinforced our resolve to step up counter-terrorism cooperation, which should be a strong focus of this dialogue. this new chapter of our relationship, and now our partnership, will not lead to a situation in which we forget the remaining divergences and differences we may have with turkey – on human rights and freedom of the press. all of these will be matters to which we will come back again and again. we need to work with turkey in order to narrow the gap between our positions. the proof of the pudding is in the eating. the commission is now working to ensure that implementation is swift, effective and immediate. the commission will prepare a report on the state of play for the 15 december european council. to go more specifically into what was agreed: firstly, re-energising the eu-turkey relationship must also mean putting new energy into the ongoing accession negotiations. the summit declaration jointly welcomes the decision to hold the intergovernmental conference on 14 december for the opening of chapter 17 on economic and monetary union. in a letter sent by president juncker to prime minister davutoğlu, the commission reiterated its commitment to complete the preparatory work for the opening, in the first quarter of 2016, of chapters 15, on energy; 23, on judiciary and fundamental rights; 24, on justice, freedom and security; 26, on education and culture; and 31, on foreign, security and defence policy. secondly, turkey has committed to accelerating the fulfilment of the visa liberalisation benchmarks, and we welcome that. the commission will assist turkey in this endeavour, and strive to achieve visa liberalisation for turkish citizens in the schengen area by october 2016, provided, of course, that all requirements have been met by then. we want to accelerate the process but we do not want to change the requirements. they will remain firm and they need to be applied in full. by the way, turkey did not ask us to relax the requirements. progress needs to be made on the management of borders, asylum and migration, quality of travel documents and respect for minorities’ rights. moreover, the visa liberalisation process can only go hand in hand with substantial progress on the eu-turkey readmission agreement, notably on the obligation to take back third-country nationals. the date for full implementation of the readmission agreement has been considerably brought forward, to june 2016, from the initially proposed date of october 2017. thirdly, we agreed on addressing the refugee crisis together. we agreed to activate the joint action plan that was agreed ad referenda on 15 october and welcomed by heads of state and government of the eu’s 28 member states at the european council held the same day. this is a joint action plan to step up cooperation on migration management in a coordinated effort to tackle the refugee crisis. it identifies a series of actions for both the european union and the republic of turkey. the aim is twofold: this is about confronting common challenges in a concerted manner and supplementing turkey’s efforts in managing the large number of people in need of international protection in the country. on sunday, turkey committed to implementing immediately the elements agreed on in the action plan, notably immediate action to stem the flow of irregular migrants to the eu and to improve the socio-economic situation of syrians under temporary protection in turkey. both sides reaffirmed their shared commitment to step up the fight against smugglers. the eu has committed to providing immediate and ongoing humanitarian assistance in turkey, including through its overall financial support. the commission has put forward its decision: the turkey refugee facility was adopted last week. on sunday there was consensus among leaders that the eu is committed to providing an initial eur 3 billion of additional resources. the need for, and nature of, this funding will be reviewed in the light of the developing situation. the details will be worked out with the eu member states by the next european council. however, let me be crystal clear about the destination for these funds: this is not money for turkey – it is money to provide help to refugees in turkey. this is money to provide for medical care for syrians, for schooling, and for better living conditions for syrian refugees in turkey. i hope this house will not question the importance of burden-sharing, not only within the eu but also with all our neighbours. we have put in place several instruments for that: the syrian trust fund, the african trust fund and the turkey refugee facility. let me finish on the question of resettlement. i have repeatedly stressed, including before you, that you take a lot of human misery out of the equation if you have resettlement. you take the criminal networks out of the equation – with all the risks that people take to come to europe – and you introduce fair burden sharing by the international community. and, by the way, you can identify precisely who you invite to come to europe. resettlement is part of the overall partnership with turkey set out on sunday. it is explicitly referred to under point 6 of the summit declaration. the next steps on resettlement were discussed on the margins of the summit. the commission will prepare a framework for such a voluntary scheme by 15 december. i want to repeat what president juncker has said: this will be an open and voluntary process. those member states willing to join this common undertaking will tell us – yes or no – whether they would like to be part of this endeavour, which the commission deems very necessary.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not mr vice president! mr. chairman of the council! i am not saying that we should not be concerned. it is good that the summit took place, it was a positive sign. it's good that he's got a result. i thank the commission, frans timmermans, and you for the work that has gone into getting us to results. but let's be honest here. the summit took place mainly because we have a major refugee problem on our doorstep via the balkan route which we must solve together. and let 's be honest here . the problems are so great because one member state of the european union, greece, is not implementing the schengen standards at its external schengen border. if we were to use all the police and border guards we are using now to rebuild border security inside europe - between germany and france, between bavaria and austria, between sweden and denmark - if we were to use them all to jointly secure the 190 km long greek-turkish border, then europe would be better served than with what we are currently unfortunately experiencing in the european union. so we have to be honest that we have to do our job internally, which is to secure our borders properly. the points which have been offered to turkey are extensive and there will be some questions in my group on this. for example, the full liberalization of the issuing of visas will be debated. we already have the problem of overstays with other countries - people who enter without a visa and then fail to comply with their exit obligation. it will be necessary in any case for us in europe to think about an entry-exit system to at least document who stays in europe as an overstayer and who does not. the negotiating chapter is, in our view, a way of having talks. we support this, but we are clear that all the talks will be conducted in the open because we believe in a privileged partnership with turkey. and finally, on the three billion euros: the eu is providing, the commission is proposing, parliament is ready to put the 500 million on the table. and i hope that the member states will finally live up to their obligations. i would like to point out that other countries in the region are also doing a lot of work. we are talking a lot about turkey, but also lebanon, jordan, many in this region are making a huge contribution, and i hope that a wave of refugees will not have to emerge before the member states and before we europeans build up so much partnership with these countries that we also help these countries enormously. and finally, i would like to make it clear that we support the commission's approach of finding pragmatic solutions now, on the one hand, but also addressing the critical points in relations with turkey on the other. in the progress report the commission did so: the issues of press freedom, rights and respect for human rights in turkey were also clearly raised by us europeans in our relations with turkey. thank you for that clarification. ladies and gentlemen, it was good that this summit took place. we will now proceed step by step with the implementation and we will seek to resolve the outstanding issues constructively in the coming weeks. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. unlike my colleague, i am not speaking here primarily as a national member of parliament but as the leader of a political group. i can assure my group that we are trying to strike a balance between solidarity and government action in protecting the external borders. i would point out that another eu country even has state territory on african soil, namely spain, which has for years been able to secure the corresponding european external border in ceuta. this also requires technical measures. it is true that without technical measures it will not be possible to secure europe's external borders. what spain is doing in ceuta, greece should do in turkey.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. my group has always advocated that the european union should negotiate with turkey in a systematic and consistent manner. we have never doubted that the european union needs turkey and vice versa. i have to tell you: i found it a sad experience in the debate about the future of turkey and the european union that it was only when tens of thousands of refugees had migrated from turkey to the heart of the european union that the leaders of the european union remembered that turkey was really needed. there have been much better times to reopen the dialogue with turkey on visa liberalization and on negotiations. we are pleased that something is being unblocked, but we feel that the european institutions and the council have not yet shown sufficient awareness of the difficulties involved in what is being achieved with turkey today. we have heard a lot about what needs to be done for refugees, about creating better housing, prospects for children, prospects for employment. i would like to know how you intend to guarantee this to the turkish government today. i'm very suspicious of that. in fact, i see that the new possible agreement in turkey is interpreted more as a lockdown oriented approach, that it is even prepared to prevent refugees from leaving, and even to arrest them. if this happens, it will be a further step away from the european union's own values and also away from international law. the first such news came from turkey in recent days. ladies and gentlemen, i think we need to talk to turkey much more aggressively about human rights. the intensification in turkey cannot be treated in a 'far-away' way. the murder of lawyer tahir elçi just before the summit, the arrest of journalist can dündar, whom many of us know personally, were real provocations before this summit. i want the european union to actively seek a better relationship with turkey, but i don't think turkey can be a good, reliable partner on refugee issues or on syria if we just ignore the internal developments in turkey. i think the democrats in turkey would be shocked by something like this. ladies and gentlemen, i have here a list, a sort of memory aid: the journalists who have been pressured. i am now giving the list to the council and the commission and i hope that you will ensure that this list is published in the near future. (the president cut the speaker off) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am in favour of the european union being faithful to the treaty and keeping its promises to turkey. and that means serious and systematic negotiations. it is good that this is being tackled again! when and how we talk about membership of the european union is a matter of great controversy even in turkey. but the negotiations are being called for by all sides, and the european union must do what it promised in 2004.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. it was a good result on sunday and i would like to thank you again, mr timmermans, for putting a lot of effort and a lot of empathy into this work, otherwise it would not have been possible to achieve such a result. now, i admit it's not the best time for such an agreement, after what we've seen in the last few months on tv and in the news. it is right, however, and it is right to open chapter 17, but i ask you very much - not only in turkey or with turkey - to open chapters 23 and 24 as soon as possible, because when we talk about freedom and justice, we have the issues that most need to be discussed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and i think it's a good opportunity for those of us who don't want to take in refugees to show that we are still in solidarity.
sir, i was in the chamber, but not on my seat.
i have to say, madam president, thank you very much. i would like to say a few words about my austrian predecessor: he wants more refugees to come to austria, because only with the help of turkey can the flow of refugees be curbed. so he's advocating for more refugees to come to austria. the main points i wanted to make are: i would like to thank the commission and the council for the summit. because there is a chance to get order into the proceedings, to reduce the numbers. if turkey has been hosting 2.5 million refugees for the last four years, and lebanon, with a population of 4 million, has been hosting 1.4 million refugees, then we have a responsibility to help those countries - for the sake of the refugees and also for the sake of those countries. we have to do our part. and if this has the consequence that fewer refugees are coming here and we can provide decent care for these refugees in accordance with the geneva convention, that seems to me to be the right way to go. and if we are able to set up a structure for controlling external borders at the same time, to regulate the question of registration in a sensible way, and on this basis to introduce a comprehensible form of quotas in the member states which is manageable and controllable, then this seems to me to be a way of removing this pressure. let me say one last thing: all this is only valid if we succeed in ending the war there. and the only way to end the war is with turkey. and to open up a chapter with turkey on human rights and the rule of law, i think it's exciting because then turkey really has to show what happened there. i would also like to point out that turkey will not become a member if, in a series of 72 unanimous decisions in the council which would be necessary for membership, the sixth and seventh decisions are now taken, irrespective of the decision of the parliaments. but i'm just excited to talk about human rights in turkey. and if that's combined with having fewer refugees, that seems like a good deal to me. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. not to pay cash? then we broke the deal. moreover, these funds are not paid into a turkish state budget, but are paid there on a project-by-project basis for dealing with the refugee crisis - project by project, step by step, not in one step, if i understand correctly, mr timmermans. and that is why there is no danger, because turkey has an interest in this deal, turkey has every interest in complying with this deal, because otherwise no chapter will be opened and nothing will be done. and besides, i would say, then we are not in a position to end the war either. because ending the war by stopping oil supplies, by stopping financial flows in favour of is is only possible if turkey is in this boat along with others. that's why i think this is a good deal.
madam president, let us be clear: this is a deal in which turkey is supposed to stop refugees in return for the european union turning a blind eye on human rights – and this is bad for the refugees who will be detained and pushed back into syria. but it is also bad for people in turkey. those people were really looking to and hoping for eu accession, for eu values, for the kurds and for journalists – journalists like can dündar, who was arrested a couple of days ago in turkey. so i would like to ask you, commissioner, as vice-president of the commission with responsibility for fundamental rights: what do fundamental rights mean to you in this agreement?
in writing. the european council summit with turkey was another milestone in the european and international response to the refugee crisis. as the main transit country for refugees and migrants, turkey is the european union's most important strategic partner in this crisis. the strategic partnership will be further developed through the eu-turkey action plan. the living conditions of the more than two million refugees in turkey must be improved in concrete terms so that fewer people take the dangerous flight to europe. the european union's three billion euros for refugee aid in turkey is therefore a sensible measure. this money does not go to the turkish government's account but is used exclusively to finance refugee projects. the aim is to improve the educational opportunities of the approximately 900 000 children who need to be educated in turkey. i would like to thank the commission in particular. it has negotiated in a very short time the concise eu-turkey action plan, which paves the way for further progress in tackling the migration crisis.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to congratulate the commission on presenting the proposal today - that is the key point. is it an ambitious proposal? he's definitely different, and we need to analyze that. i agree with all those who say that we should have expected a little more on the subject of food waste, and we will certainly be making amendments to that. the fact that we are working on this proposal now, and quickly, is necessary for many reasons. i would like to draw attention to the climate protection argument in particular. when waste ends up in landfill, it produces methane, and methane is a much more potent greenhouse gas than co2. that's why we have to do something. in my country, germany, the largest single amount of any industry ever comes from the recycling industry. this is certainly a model we should take a closer look at. we shall examine the details carefully, but we must get to work and not just debate the principles now!
i have to say, madam president, what strikes me as a former environment manager of wwf in germany and as a former president of industry in handling this dossier is that we are very often dealing with ideological arguments rather than scientific arguments. we see it for example in the possibility of reusing pvc, which some people in this parliament believe should be burned. ladies and gentlemen, this is obviously contrary to the idea of a circular economy. mckinsey has found that by 2030, a circular economy could save 1.8 trillion euros! i am also of the opinion that the single currency must be abolished because it is causing discord and division in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i'm not actually unhappy today. i was very dissatisfied when the commission withdrew the report. you kept your word, the date is on it. and i think it's now come to the awareness of the public and the political community that resource policy is an important factor. i hear percentages and targets are a big deal right now. i would like to say to you: do not fall into this trap, because first we must define criteria and methods for achieving our objectives. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. it is therefore right that we should be very much concerned with the concepts of, for example, what is recycling? i would like to see the chapter on action plans more clearly defined, because that is where the music is. mr vice-president, you have to work very hard and deliver quickly to get the package. that's what matters!
in writing. i welcome the revised proposal on waste policy and the circular economy. i support the approach of a circular economy, where resources are used more sustainably. it is urgent to consider the entire life cycle of a product in terms of resource efficiency, consumer protection, climate protection, and economic policy interests. whether the commission's package will be sufficient to achieve maximum value and use of all raw materials, products and waste, to promote energy savings and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions will be seen in the forthcoming discussions.
rapporteur.– madam president, i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation, and a very special thanks also to my co-rapporteur, roberta metsola, with whom it was a great pleasure to work. and thanks, too, to the ombudswoman who drew up the original report on which we now have this report. altogether i think we are submitting a very good report to this plenary for you to vote on. it is a report that will protect the human rights of refugees and migrants at our external borders better, but it is also a report that will enable frontex to have a clearer picture about where human rights violation might occur and how to solve this problem. it is a win-win situation. what we are proposing is to establish a complaints mechanism that refugees and migrants can use, through which they can address their complaints to frontex if they feel that they have been mistreated in a frontex operation – whether involving frontex employees or guest officers of member states. all these groups are recognisable by their frontex armband, and therefore we think that we cannot expect refugees to try to research which member state a specific guest officer might have been from. rather, it is really important that they can address their complaints to frontex and that we task frontex, as we proposed to do, with making sure that those complaints actually arrive at the right place and are followed up, so that the member states do not eventually need to follow up on those complaints. of course, this will need sufficient resources in frontex to handle the task because it is quite a new and significant task that we want to place in the trustworthy hands of the fundamental rights officer of frontex. i am very hopeful that frontex will now act swiftly in response to this request, without waiting until the next frontex mandate review has been adopted, because that will take some time. i am glad too that the frontex consultative forum sees implementation of the complaint mechanism as a core priority for its work next year. the consultative forum, by the way, is a body that the european parliament helped to create in the last review of the frontex mandate, so our work here in the parliament is indeed essential to the functioning of our external borders agency. i believe that, with this complaint mechanism, we can take a further step towards ensuring even more human rights at our external borders. frontex has, in the past, received more and more tasks, and it may receive even more in the future. so it is only right and fair that frontex also has to do more on human rights. i hope this house can support our report, which we have been working on for several months now, with really great collaboration among the shadow rapporteurs and the co-rapporteur and with both the committee on petitions and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i also hope that the commissioner can give us a date when the complaint mechanism can be included in the next frontex mandate review that he proposes, because i think it is very important that human rights safeguards keep pace with the enlargement of any task frontex may have.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for your contributions! i would also like to thank you very much, commissioner, for taking up parliament's request and now including such a complaints mechanism in the next frontex mandate. thank you for that. i believe that the complaints mechanism is a really important step towards better protection of human rights at the external borders. of course, this does not solve all the human rights problems we have at the external borders - that is quite clear. but i do believe that we are creating a bit more justice at the external borders, so that refugees and migrants do not feel vulnerable to border officials, but also for frontex, so that frontex can better investigate where human rights violations actually happen, why they happen and how we can better prevent them in the future. i think we have put forward a proposal here which is also feasible, which is feasible for refugees - even if refugees are apprehensive or afraid - and which is also feasible for frontex, even if it involves officials from the member states. i think we have also found a very good, practical and feasible, effective way for frontex to deal with these requests, these complaints, to forward them and to ensure that the refugees and migrants also receive a response. but it is clear that we are operating within the framework of frontex's competence. i really think we have worked well together - thank you again to the shadow rapporteurs and to my co-rapporteur - and that we have presented a really good compromise that is really feasible. and i very much hope that in the future we will see the first results.
i have to say, madam president, in your explanatory statement for this resolution you write: '... to encourage member states to move transport from road to water and rail.' but there is no full concept here. most european cities can be reached by water. these waterways could be used to handle a large amount of heavy goods traffic. i'm also experiencing the opposite with the rail. for the past two years, there have been thousands of buses on the long-distance routes. in many cases, all or most of the passenger traffic is being moved from rail to road, which imposes additional burdens on driver safety, the environment and traffic congestion. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
i have to say, madam president, of course urban mobility is a subject for eu funding programmes, exchange of experience, best practice but is it a legislative topic for us? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. that is something that needs to be discussed, but certainly not in this report! and then the bicycles: of course, for well-being issues we have subscribed to the competence in brussels. the luxembourg transport council also has no better idea than to convene a bicycle summit of 28 transport ministers. do we not have other problems in europe? ladies and gentlemen, our shadow reporter has tried many things, has put some things in a reasonable direction, but what remains are bicycle quotas, car-free sundays, the ban on internal combustion engines. i am also in favour of improved urban mobility and will support the report in this respect too. but instead of car-free sundays, we should be looking more closely at urban slums, and instead of bicycle quotas, i would recommend that european attention be given to refugee quotas, ladies and gentlemen. thank you very much.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome the report on sustainable urban mobility. it identifies the main challenges facing the growing mobility structure in the digital age. firstly, it is extremely important to take into account the different regional needs and not to adopt a top-down approach, but to support the regional authorities in developing concepts. the platform for sharing best practice can be a great help. we should also offer short-term solutions at european level on what standards for data provision can be, so that providers and users of infrastructure and mobility services can have access to the necessary information, while ensuring credible data protection. i hope that this report will be used as an opportunity to give greater priority to electric mobility and to use electric buses in local public transport.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the car is killing our cities! "whoever sows roads will reap traffic!" said the then very young mayor of munich, hans-jochen vogel, a social democrat, 43 years ago, in 1972. even if tomorrow all cars were electric and all energy came from renewable sources, the killing of cities would continue. because in germany, 100 hectares disappear under concrete and asphalt every day. the german government also wants to reduce this to 30 hectares. on 8 october, the 28 transport ministers of the european union unanimously adopted the roadmap bicycle. this report states that more than half of the freight traffic in european cities can be moved to cargo bikes. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. what can you do to create incentives here so that the cargo bikes also get the width they need?
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes) mrs corazza bildt, you have signed up for the rules of procedure? there you go.
i am not going to go into detail. i have made an inquiry into this faulty and incorrect vote, firstly in the case of mr de graaff. i have listened to mr de graaff. mr de graaff has acknowledged that his vote was incorrect. i have to decide now - i haven't done that yet - what sanction i'm going to impose. i'm going to make one. mr de graaff has informed me that he recognises that this was wrong and that he will accept the sanction. i also listened to mr bay. mr bay has denied the accusation made by several colleagues that he voted for mrs le pen in her absence. he said it wouldn't happen, he didn't do it. i have therefore asked the colleagues concerned, who had written to me saying that they had seen mr bay vote instead of mrs le pen, to speak to me. the debate has taken place. you are one of the colleagues. all the honourable members have assured me - in a record which will be signed by them - that they will continue to believe that they saw mr bay vote. once i have completed this investigation, i will discuss it again with mr bay and then make a decision on how to deal with it. because here we are in a situation where four or five colleagues say, "that's how it was, we saw that", one colleague says, "no, i didn't do that". the investigation into mrs le pen is such that i have been informed that mrs le pen was in the chamber during the voting behaviour alleged against mr bay. that will mean that i have to agree with mrs le pen on this point, at least as to whether she knew that her colleague was voting for her or whether she did not know. whether the current secretary-general of the front national is or is not a factor in this context is irrelevant. but we'll have to find out anyway. i will inform you when i have completed my investigation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i asked at the time because the results of this vote were very close, with either a difference of one vote or an equality of votes. i would now like to ask you whether you have checked which votes were so close and what you would do if you found that a narrow majority or a narrow minority was only achieved through fraud.
i'm not going to let you do this. we followed your lead. there's no close vote in any of the incriminated cases. so where mr de graaff or mr bay voted for mrs le pen, the voting results were such that the wrong vote could not have changed the result. in this case, we are indeed dealing with a serious situation. it's perfectly clear.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the aging process is certainly a serious one for all of us, affecting all organs from head to toe. so it is, of course, worthwhile to have a discussion about how we can help you. i shall discuss this again with the groups.
mr president, the voting list provides for two votes, one on the appointment and one on the nomination. is that wrong?
mr. shopkeeper, i have to go. the vote was correct. the second is a nomination followed by a vote. in that respect, we have done the right thing.
my dear colleague! i am sure that the commission will be able to give us a reply to this question. i am obliged to give her the floor, strictly according to the rules of procedure, but not for a political statement, of course. in this respect, mrs delli, you have skillfully used the rules of procedure to make a political statement. the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it was certainly very important to put the issue on the public agenda. i myself have attended many events in germany, and there has been a heated debate about trade, about migration, about food sovereignty and about what is being done and what is not being done. and it's also good to show off what we've done here. but we cannot rest on that! now we must follow these words with concrete actions, actions that safeguard human dignity and secure the future of our children. this is a matter for national governments in particular, but also for each and every citizen. in the context of the refugee debate, this means that the dignity of refugees must also be respected. we must welcome them in our countries and we must be prepared to find solutions to meet this challenge together. and what the sdgs are saying is that we need to start with ourselves, to reduce our consumption, reduce our waste, save energy, live more climate friendly, and we don't need a budget title to do that. our world, our dignity, our future - that is to say, to look beyond our own borders and to act in the true interest of all, and the keyword for this is policy coherence.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european year was, from my point of view, a very successful year, because it showed the importance of political coherence in the context of development policy. this has been made clear in the 12 months of work which have been devoted to this. i also suggested in the german bundestag that there should be a regular coherence report. this year has had its ups and downs. unfortunately, we did not achieve the 0.7% of the gross national income of the member states and the european union promised at the addis ababa financing conference. at the same time - and i disagree with my colleague - we have had a good campaign, which has also shown that the new presidency of the council is also putting the alliance for textiles on a stronger footing. at the same time, i want to make it very clear that this was a starting point for the 2030 sustainable development goals, which we will now tackle in the next few years the coherence is being strengthened. i thank the commissioner and the representatives of the presidency of the council for the successful work they have done together with parliament and the commission. thank you very much.
for the next catch-the-eye procedure, i have more than twice as many word messages as i can take into account. i'm very sorry i can't call everyone. that's why i'm asking for your understanding. catch the eye
member of the commission.– mr president, at the beginning of the year we knew that 2015 was going to be a crucial year for mapping out the future of development cooperation at international level. the adoption of the new sustainable development goals provides us with a new context for our work in the next 15 years. the world is increasingly complex and fast-moving. new crises and new challenges emerged this year, only to remind us how important it is to make development work for migration and migration work for development. our communication on development issues needs to be up to the mark and inclusive, engaging all partners and the wider public – particularly young men and women – in support of sustainable development beyond this year. let us build on the work we have done together in this european year for development to make sure that the voice of the vulnerable continues to be heard.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the european parliament once again for its contribution to the success of the european year of development. it is indeed coming to an end, but our efforts to eradicate poverty and create a more just and peaceful world must continue, if not intensify. they must above all be translated into action through our development cooperation and the commitments we have made in this regard. these commitments must be respected. nearly 1.3 billion people still live in extreme poverty. and while hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty, inequality within countries has often increased in many parts of the world. now the survival of our planet is at stake, and many developing countries are particularly affected by the effects of climate change. everything must therefore be done, now in paris, to meet this climate challenge, because that is also the whole point of sustainable development. just as there can be no peace without development - and this has been repeated many times - there can be no security in a world where inequalities in development remain so great. this commitment to development must not end with this year. this work of raising awareness, explaining and persuading must be actively pursued.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the council on the gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies by evelyn regner, maria arena, tadeusz zwiefka, mariya gabriel and constance le grip, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament and the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o-000136/2015 - b8-1109/2015) (2015/2967 (((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not parliament wants to forcefully enforce women's quotas, which is as wrong as wet water! why should we have quotas for supervisory boards only, if we have quotas, and not for blast furnace engineers or the fire brigade? and why are gender quotas for women only and not for all other genders as well? for the bisexuals and the transsexuals and the intersexuals, i mean, if there are quotas, then there are! quotas for private companies are an infringement of freedom of enterprise. an entrepreneur is free to hire 100 women, 100 men or 100 chimpanzees - it's his free choice! quotas are nothing but discrimination on the basis of sex. they discriminate against individuals in favour of a group, and i reject that. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the target is a 40% quota on supervisory boards. that's the beginning. this is the wrong goal, and the methods are not going to make it better. the aim is to discriminate against women because they are employed as women and nothing else. that is the wrong aim, and that is why i reject it.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. actually, it could be very simple. we have a common political objective, equality between men and women, fair representation in decision-making positions. we have instruments that have been proven to work, these binding rules that mrs regner spoke about, and everyone would benefit: men, women, the economy - everyone in our society. politics could be that simple sometimes. but some member states in the european union still do not seem to have recognised this, and above all the german federal government. and therefore: dear german government! the commission has really responded to all the requests in all areas. to reject the proposal now would not only be wrong but simply absurd. to mrs schwesig, the german minister for family affairs, who supports this proposal: the european parliament is behind you! i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this.
- i'm not sure. i understand your message. but i am very sorry to tell you that it was not a question that was put to the colleagues.
i would like to thank mr buonanno. i would like to say that the debate was on the subject which was discussed by the other members and you were the only one who did not.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since 2010, the proportion of women on supervisory boards in europe has been growing very slowly. it's a small crack in the glass ceiling, but it's a tiny crack! and the commission has proposed a transparent procedure for the appointment of supervisory boards across europe, with the aim of having 40% of supervisory board seats filled by women by 2020. parliament has approved the 2013 budget. we have been waiting for two years for the council to make a move. voluntary agreements are useless, because we see: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this is why i do not understand: my own country germany has a mandatory quota of women on supervisory boards. there has been some movement, but the fact that these countries are against it - there must be a solution, and i agree with what my colleague maria arena said - there must be a new round of talks. nothing is to be taken away! there is supposed to be a basis for all european women.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the last few years. today, the debate is once again: do we need a quota or do we not need it? i say quite clearly: we have had a quota for decades, we have had a men's quota for decades! it is enough to be a man to get to certain positions. we women worry about whether the qualifications are good enough. i repeat, for decades we have had a male quota. the male ratio in malta is currently 97.5%, compared to the european average of around 80%. i would like to make it clear again that it is our right as women, and it is not indecent to demand 40%. it's our right, and it's not indecent. if we were to ask for 50, 60, 70%, then we could discuss whether it is not too much. now we're just demanding what's rightfully ours. we've had the male quota for decades!
we now come to the catch-the-eye procedure. i can take all the members into account, since we have only one word too many. catch the eye
i told you before, i can take anyone who volunteers. if there are any more people who have come forward after that, i'm afraid i can't take that into account, because we're already running out of time. (end of the 'catch-the-eye' procedure)
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, almost 60 years ago, men who were still not very advanced on gender equality inscribed in the treaty of rome the principle of equal pay between men and women. and that's surprising, because back then, the gender pay gap was huge. it was huge! today, almost 60 years after the treaty of rome was drawn up, the gender pay gap still exists. imagine if this provision had not been included in the treaty of rome... i doubt that this would be the case today, even though the current situation is still largely unsatisfactory. so i think that what is being proposed is certainly not a desirable proposal, since what we would have wanted is for equality to be achieved and for there to be no debate to promote women. because then the situation would simply be normal: sometimes there would be 60 per cent men, sometimes 60 per cent women. the reality - you know very well - is quite different. so now we need an instrument so that we do not have to wait another 70 years or even 90 years, as someone has said. i didn't plead for patience. i said it would take too much patience. you ask me what the positions are in the council? they're not that different from some of the positions i've heard here. sometimes it is subsidiarity, sometimes it is disagreement that a mandatory instrument is needed, sometimes it is free enterprise that will, somewhere, anyway, make the right choice. the various positions in the council reflect quite well the variety of positions expressed here. i can assure you that the luxembourg presidency will do all it can, and perhaps even a little more, but a qualified majority is a qualified majority. therefore, all must be done to obtain it. we'll work on it, of course, but i can't give you all the guarantees in the world.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the situation in hungary: follow-up to the european parliament resolution of 10 june 2015 by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (o-000140/2015 - b8-1110/2015) (2015/2935 (((rsp)).
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank parliament for the oral question on the situation in hungary. i know that there is a lot of discussion on whether to trigger article 7 of the treaty on european union or the rule of law framework as regards hungary. today i would like to set out for the house what action the commission is taking to monitor the situation in hungary, and to ensure that european union law and fundamental values remain respected there. and it is against that background that i will also explain to you why the commission does not believe that there are grounds at this stage to trigger article 7 or the rule of law framework. during our previous debates i have always made it clear that the commission will be vigilant when concrete measures and actions are taken by the hungarian authorities. i have also said that the commission will use all the means at its disposal to ensure that hungary – as well as any other member state – complies with its obligations. and you know that the commission has already done so in the past when it took hungary, for instance, successfully to court for the early retirement of judges or violation of the independence of the data protection supervisor. this is what we have done. following parliament’s resolution of 10 june 2015, the commission has taken a number of actions with respect to the recent developments in hungary. let me give you a brief overview. as regards migration, the hungarian government formally announced on 15 september 2015 a ‘crisis situation caused by mass immigration’ on the basis of legislation that had entered into force that same day. a preliminary assessment of the hungarian legislation revealed a number of concerns and questions on substance and implementation relating in particular to the compatibility of this legislation with the eu’s asylum and borders acquis, and the eu charter of fundamental rights. these issues were addressed by the commission’s services in a letter sent on 6 october 2015 to the hungarian authorities. a detailed reply from the hungarian authorities was received on 4 november, which clarified a number of questions but did not remove all outstanding concerns. this response is currently under assessment by the commission. as regards the debate on the reintroduction of the death penalty, both commission president juncker and first vice-president timmermans made clear statements on this: article 2 of the eu charter of fundamental rights prohibits explicitly and clearly any person from being condemned to death, or executed. in addition, the european court of human rights has ruled that the death penalty is a violation of the european convention on human rights. the abolition of the death penalty is a condition which states are required to meet in order to become members of the council of europe or of the european union. the reintroduction of capital punishment would be contrary to the eu’s fundamental values. a reintroduction of the death penalty by a member state would therefore lead to the application of article 7 of the treaty. the debate launched by prime minister orbán did not materialise and the death penalty has not been introduced. as regards the situation of civil society in hungary, the commission expressed its concerns about the disagreement between norway and hungary and about the follow-up to this dispute, which may have a serious impact on a number of ngos working on the promotion of human rights in hungary, and negatively affect the functioning of the european economic area and norwegian financial mechanisms. the commission’s services sent an administrative letter to the hungarian authorities underlining this concern. on 7 october this year it was reported that the national tax authority had closed its investigation into the ngos relating to the european economic area/norway grants. the decision to withdraw the tax registration numbers of the ngos concerned is still pending before a hungarian court. we have also noticed that a hungarian court ruled that a police raid on watchdog ngos in 2014 was illegal. as regards the situation of roma, the housing situation remains a concern. the commission’s services started an eu pilot procedure and are assessing the matter in the light of the directive on racial equality, which prohibits discrimination on grounds of ethnic origin in a number of fields, including housing. on the education of roma, concerns remain as well, in particular relating to possible segregation and discrimination of roma children. also on this matter the commission’s services started an eu pilot procedure and are following further developments, again in the light of the directive on racial equality. as regards the transposition and implementation of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia in hungary, a meeting took place on 15 october 2015 between the commission’s services and the hungarian authorities to discuss a number of outstanding issues. the meeting was part of a series of bilateral dialogues held during the past year with member states on this topic prior to the possible launching of infringement procedures. i can assure you that the commission will not hesitate to take action to ensure the proper transposition and implementation of the framework decision by hungary, like any other member state. we underlined this in the european agenda on security as well as during the commission’s colloquium on fundamental rights in october. as regards the situation of the media, the hungarian parliament amended on 27 may 2015 its advertising tax law, following an eu pilot procedure and an in-depth state aid investigation launched by the commission. as a result, the eu pilot procedure could be closed, while the state aid investigation continues, as certain state-aid related aspects still remain to be clarified. the commission has also taken note of the opinion of the venice commission of 22 june 2015 on media legislation in hungary and is following the response of the hungarian authorities to the recommendations contained therein. as regards corruption and misuse of eu funds, the commission suspended on 14 july 2015 payments for several contracts across eight programmes due to the use of an excessively restrictive selection criterion in public procurement procedures. the commission had already suspended interim payments to hungary from the european regional development fund for priorities 1, 2 and 3 of the operational programme ‘economic development’. this suspension was lifted by the commission on 23 september 2015, following corrective action by the hungarian authorities. olaf is continuing investigations. in the context of the european semester, the commission noted continued shortcomings as regards corruption and lack of transparency affecting public administration, decision-making and public procurement in hungary. following a commission proposal, country-specific recommendations were adopted by the council on 14 july 2015, calling for action to address these issues. the commission is actively pursuing infringement procedures against hungary in a range of other areas. several infringement procedures are rule-of-law related, for instance, concerning the principle of legal certainty, the effectiveness of judicial review, or the powers and independence of administrative authorities. other infringement procedures are related to economic discrimination, in particular affecting the freedom of establishment, the freedom to provide services or the free movement of capital. in addition, the commission is actively conducting state aid investigations, inter alia concerning two recent hungarian measures with steeply progressive rate structures, notably a food-chain inspection fee and a new tax on sales of tobacco products. in these cases the commission issued injunctions, prohibiting hungary from applying the progressive rates until the commission has concluded its assessment. the commission also opened, last week, in-depth state aid investigations into hungary’s plans to provide financing for the construction of two new nuclear reactors in the paks plant. the commission is also following how the judiciary in hungary is fulfilling its role of guarantor of the rule of law. in recent months a number of noteworthy judgments have been rendered by the supreme court, the constitutional court and also by ordinary hungarian courts. this overview demonstrates that the commission is actively monitoring the situation in hungary and is ready to use all the means at its disposal to ensure that hungary – as well as any other member state – complies with the obligations under european union law and respects the values of the european union enshrined in article 2 of the treaty on european union. this includes using infringement procedures in case of violations of european union law as well as the eu rule of law framework where this is necessary. the commission has at this stage not activated the rule of law framework as regards hungary. the rule of law framework will be activated where there are clear indications of a systemic threat to the rule of law in a member state, in particular in situations which cannot be effectively addressed by infringement procedures and if the ‘rule of law safeguards’ which exist at national level no longer seem capable of effectively addressing these threats. these national ‘rule of law safeguards’ refer to all judicial and constitutional mechanisms and safeguards which aim to ensure the protection of democracy and fundamental rights in a member state. considering that concerns about the situation in hungary are being addressed by a range of infringement procedures and pre-infringement procedures, and that also the hungarian justice system has a role to play, the commission takes the view that the conditions to activate the rule of law framework regarding hungary are at this stage not met. the commission will continue to monitor the situation in hungary closely, including the functioning of the national rule of law safeguards referred to above.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i should like to thank the commissioner for the very comprehensive overview she has given us. and i also thank you for the reply you gave us on 5 november, which unfortunately was not given to the members by the parliament's administration within the appropriate timeframe, so that we received the reply so late that we also made an unjustified reproach in the question, namely that you had not replied to us. they have answered us, and i want to thank them very much for that. secondly, i would like to thank you for your very objective approach to the subject. because i think it is urgent that you try to deal with this in a factual, structured way and that you continue the work here with care, given the problems we are facing not only in hungary but also in greece and poland, for example, in a great variety of ways, but also in slovakia and the czech republic at the moment in the area of dealing with refugees, dealing with refugees and the like. what i see as a problem in parliament at the moment - and i have said this to my colleagues on several occasions - is that the focus is exclusively on hungary, whereas there are plenty of other member states with very similar problems. the judicial system in greece suffers at least as much as in hungary. it has been experiencing considerable problems for many years under a left-wing and right-wing populist government, without our discussing this in this parliament in an offensive against greece under the threat of article 7 by parliament. we also have problems with refugees in hungary - and not only in hungary. we have the same problems in greece, including human rights violations. we also have problems in poland, partly with arguments that are very violent and very intense and that speak out against refugees, whereas everyone has signed the human rights convention and needs to know that refugees have a right to seek refuge in a member state of the european union if they are fleeing from war, death, want and misery and cannot survive in their own home country. then we are obliged to give them a home. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to express my appreciation of the structured approach. commissioner, i have a request to make of you. you wrote in your letter that there are a whole lot of, so to speak, control mechanisms, monitoring systems. it would be very interesting for us to know which member states are subject to such procedures and how they are carried out, because then i, for example, as a member of parliament, would be able to see more clearly whether the systems are applied fairly, so to speak, equally, to all the member states or whether the approach is a little too specific. i think you're being fair, but i'd be interested in knowing more about it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in view of the long list of serious problems, mrs jourová, i cannot understand the commission's decision not to activate even the first stage of the rule of law mechanism in the case of hungary. when will we finally have a closer look at the activities of the orbán government? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i have been asked this question again and again, also in my constituency in berlin. the citizens are asking with deep concern, and they are asking precisely because they know how much we germans, how much we berliners owe to hungary. and that this concern is also clearly being echoed by civil society in many of our member states is shown by the recently launched european citizens' initiative wake up europe. it is calling on the commission to invoke article 7 against hungary, and i think that is a clear sign that we are being asked to take clear action and that we should not look any further. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. that is a very silly question. you don't expect me to say yes. it is quite clear that we have common european values enshrined in the treaty. the list of problems presented by mrs jourová is very long and covers many policy areas. we all have every reason to be concerned about developments in hungary. the government is responsible for this. and the government must also face the criticism from this house and other european institutions and also from civil society. we owe this to the common development of this european house!
member of the commission.– mr president, i am grateful to the honourable member for bringing parliament’s attention to the situation in virunga national park. virunga illustrates the multi—dimensional challenges faced in the great lakes region, where peace—building, stabilisation and state-building need to go hand in hand. virunga is a unique world heritage site. sadly, it is also a dangerous place to work and a difficult place to protect. a group of courageous and dedicated individuals have sacrificed their safety and sometimes their lives in the cause of conservation. they deserve our respect and appreciation. the eu must remind partners, including the democratic republic of congo (drc), of their duties under international agreements, including those which relate to natural resources. at the same time, we recognise the importance of taking into account the needs and the economic aspirations of local populations. this is an important focus within our development assistance to the drc, designed to incentivise environmental protection and alternatives to illegal activities within parks. the honourable member rightly draws attention to an important human rights dimension among the challenges faced by virunga: serious crimes, including sexual violence and violence against children, stem from conflicts with and between armed groups. sadly, virunga is not alone in this respect. predation by armed groups on the resources of other drc national parks such as garamba, the scene of illegal activities by the lord’s resistance army (lra) and groups from as far afield as sudan, also needs to be urgently addressed. supporting human rights defenders and civil society around the park needs to remain a priority for the eu. our overall approach to virunga recognises not only the need to protect the park but also to encourage legitimate development. virunga produces significant renewable and sustainable products and services, including managed fisheries, hydro-electricity and agriculture, and it ensures food security to millions of people. one goal of our financial support has been to support priority actions defined by mutual agreement with the government of drc. we have used european development fund and budget resources to boost an ambitious development programme, the ‘alliance virunga’. under the 10th european development fund, the eu supported virunga with around eur 10 million. under the 11th edf, eur 40 million is available, triggering other donors to add their resources and, in particular, substantial private funds from the buffett foundation. this support needs to be seen in the broader context of eu support to drc national conservation policies and management of forests and biodiversity. the regional programme on management of fragile ecosystems of central africa (ecofac), also supported by the eu, has funded complementary actions. and the global climate change alliance was allocated eur 14 million under the environment budget line for mitigation actions in the region. finally, environment and sustainable agriculture is an area of concentration in the 11th edf, with eur 120 million allocated across the democratic republic of congo. the impact on the populations living in the vicinity of protected areas will be a key issue in the programme. i would like now to turn to the remaining specific issues raised by the honourable member in her question. the first of these concerns the diplomatic response. in partnership with the member states and other donors present in the drc, the eu conveys messages on the protection of the park and other world heritage sites. virunga has been raised in meetings with president kabila and prime minister matata by high-level eu representatives including commission vice-president sefčovič and commissioner mimica as well, of course, as the head of the eu delegation to the drc and other eu heads of mission. the eu has participated in joint initiatives, including a joint letter to the prime minister, expressing concern about oil exploration in virunga, which was sent earlier this year. recognising the integrity of the park is an essential part of the eu position: lake edward is part of the ‘universal value’ that grants virunga world heritage status, and oil exploration and exploitation are incompatible with the unesco convention. the question also mentions how the eu can help the drc government address armed conflicts and support sustainable development and peace—building. the eu supports the addis ababa peace security and cooperation framework, the principal international agreement focused on peace and stabilisation in the great lakes region. this is the only viable roadmap for long-term peace and security in the region. more specifically, the eu assists the drc in addressing insecurity in virunga and the surrounding area, and the eu is active in the justice and security sector reform processes. to give one example, an eu-funded expert has trained the judicial authorities in ballistics examination. this was done in the framework of investment contributing to stability and peace (icsp) funded projects in support of military justice. such expertise has been applied in the investigation into the shooting of the director of virunga national park. the eu also supports conflict resolution initiatives through its instrument contributing to stability and peace. thus, the icsp has funded two relevant projects: the ‘security and stabilisation of cross-border areas of the central albertine rift’ and ‘strengthening of government institutions in management of protected areas’. the honourable member also drew attention to the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises and the united nations guiding principles on business and human rights. the un guiding principles are a framework conducive to responsible business, forming part of our strategy on corporate social responsibility. an eu staff working document sets out the eu’s activities in implementing the guidelines and promoting progress in business and human rights. and, of course, the oecd guidelines for multinational enterprises is also a building block of the strategy on corporate social responsibility. more broadly, on natural resources, i would also recall the eu engagement on responsible sourcing of tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold originating from conflict-affected and high-risk areas and, in particular, the eu financial support to the international conference on the great lakes region (icglr) initiative on natural resources. finally, a word on the strategic environmental assessment of oil exploration and exploitation in the northern albertine rift. the eu and other partners encourage the drc to wait for the results of the sustainable environment assessment (sea) before any decision on oil exploration or exploitation is made. for the sea to be a real decision-making tool, it will be essential to ensure the maximum level of professionalism and transparency in the award of the contract for the next phase. that includes sufficient ownership by the ministry of the environment in agreeing the terms of reference. i have tried to address the different aspects of this question. however, i wish to end on a broader conclusion. ensuring a viable future for parks and protected areas in the drc means addressing both the root causes of conflict and the root causes of illegal activity. it also means working on state—building, because in the long term only effective governance by the drc itself will ensure the protection of the parks and their development for sustainable activities. for this reason, the eu’s ongoing focus on security sector reform, governance, anti-corruption and public financial management in the drc remains as important as the specific support we have given and will continue to give to virunga. also, of course, i cannot ignore the importance of democracy and accountability to the drc’s stability. the eu will continue to recall the constitutional obligations and the need for a rapid consensus on the electoral cycle between now and november 2016.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not - i'm not sure. i am not going to go into detail. virunga national park, on lake edward in the eastern democratic republic of the congo, is africa's oldest nature reserve. famous for its great diversity of rare plant and animal species, but especially for having the last major population of mountain gorillas. about 400 of these impressive animals still live in the mountain forests of the virunga volcanoes. virunga national park, a world heritage site, is also one of the most endangered natural paradises. the area surrounding the park and its grounds is experiencing a rapidly growing population. many people who fled the genocide in rwanda are still there. but marauding militias and rebel groups are harassing the population, killing and raping the people. it is illegal to harvest valuable timber. the greatest threat to this unique natural paradise, which the government of the drc once pledged to protect, is that this same government of the drc is awarding mining concessions to international energy companies because of the alleged oil reserves in the lake edward area. although the company total and, a few days ago, the london-based company soco international, have given up their rights to drill for oil in the area, the drc maintains its claim to continue to explore for oil and to drill for it. but it is not just the animals and the natural resources of the park that are being hunted. in the last 20 years, 140 park rangers have lost their lives in the service of the park. the park rangers need our urgent support, both financial and material, because they are performing their dangerous service in preserving this natural monument for all mankind. however, this also includes the fact that no raw materials from illegal mining are allowed to be imported into the eu from this area, including products containing materials that have been obtained from illegal mining or forced labour. and we must put pressure on the governments of the congo and also uganda to guarantee the protection of the world's natural heritage that they have contractually guaranteed. in return, they should receive our help in the economic development of their countries. thank you, thank you!
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the establishment of a special committee on tax rulings and other measures of a similar nature or effect, its powers, size and duration, as i believe it is important for europe to address the issue of tax fairness and transparency across all borders. it is not possible for citizens, families and smes to fill the tax boxes while large companies are sunbathing in a tax-free no-man's land.
in writing. ‒ together with my colleagues from the epp group, i have once again campaigned for effective and fair tax systems. the establishment of a special committee ensures that existing tax rules continue to be respected. however, the real problem is not the taxation models of individual countries. the lack of cooperation between the member states is the cause of the emergence of ever new tax loopholes.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the appointment of the members of the special committee on tax rulings, as i am satisfied with the choice made.
in writing. ‒ after a thorough examination of all the candidates, i have approved the nomination of the proposed members of the special committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because i support the agreement with liechtenstein. money knows no borders, so we need uniformly strong rules to enable tax administrations and member states to apply tax laws in cross-border situations and to identify taxpayers correctly and clearly.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the eu-liechtenstein agreement on the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, as i welcome all the measures across europe that prevent tax and financial evasion and ensure tax fairness for our citizens and families.
in writing. ‒ automatic data exchange is another step towards closing existing tax loopholes. tax fraud and tax evasion are problems that must be tackled with a firm hand.
in writing. ‒ the eu and liechtenstein signed an agreement in order to secure a level playing field for economic operators on the basis of the measures equivalent to those laid down in the savings tax directive (2003/48/ec) in 2004. the importance of automatic exchange of information as a means to combat cross-border tax fraud by ensuring tax transparency and cooperation between tax administrations has also been recognised at oecd level. this amending protocol seeks to implement the oecd global standards on automatic exchange of financial account information between the eu and lichtenstein. i voted in favour of it. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished, because it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report by ms keller and ms metsola on the european ombudsman's special report on the own-initiative inquiry oi/5/2012/beh-mhz concerning frontex today for two reasons: i think that the commission's proposal is a good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. secondly, we in europe are facing challenges other than the establishment of a complex complaint system for refugees at the external borders. the important thing is to help people, not to create new bureaucracies.
in writing. ‒ frontex is an important component of the protection of europe's external borders. the establishment of an individual complaint mechanism will allow us to further optimise the work of frontex. however, this can only be achieved with additional funding. because the real work, protecting the borders, is the top priority.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report by metsola & keller on the proposal of the european ombudsman concerning frontex. this report deals with the requirements for a complaints procedure following possible abuse by frontex staff. the proposed procedure is largely based on the procedural guidelines of other eu institutions, such as the ecb, which have very different requirements that are hardly transferable to frontex. in the past, it has been shown that a large proportion of complaints against frontex were unsubstantiated and most allegations of alleged human rights violations were unsubstantiated. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. as frontex is to be extended and is expected to have a wider mandate, the complaints procedure should also be included in the negotiations on the new mandate and adapted to the very specific needs of frontex. only in this way can it be ensured that frontex receives an appropriate complaints procedure that functions in a lasting way and does not restrict frontex in its important work. i am also of the opinion that the euro is causing discord and dissension in europe and must therefore be abolished!
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report by metsola & keller on the proposal of the european ombudsman concerning frontex. this report deals with the requirements for a complaints procedure following possible abuse by frontex staff. the proposed procedure is largely based on the procedural guidelines of other eu institutions, such as the ecb, which have very different requirements that are hardly transferable to frontex. in the past, it has been shown that a large proportion of complaints against frontex were unsubstantiated and most allegations of alleged human rights violations were unsubstantiated. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. as frontex is to be extended and is expected to have a wider mandate, the complaints procedure should also be included in the negotiations on the new mandate and adapted to the very specific needs of frontex. only in this way can it be ensured that frontex receives an appropriate complaints procedure that works in a sustainable way and does not restrict frontex in its important work.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report by metsola & keller on the proposal of the european ombudsman concerning frontex. this report deals with the requirements for a complaints procedure following possible abuse by frontex staff. the proposed procedure is largely based on the procedural guidelines of other eu institutions, such as the ecb, which have very different requirements that are hardly transferable to frontex. in the past, it has been shown that a large proportion of complaints against frontex were unsubstantiated and most allegations of alleged human rights violations were unsubstantiated. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. since frontex is to be extended and is expected to have a wider mandate, the complaints procedure should also be included in the negotiations on the new mandate and adapted to the very specific needs of frontex. only in this way can it be ensured that frontex receives an appropriate complaints procedure that functions in a lasting way and does not restrict frontex in its important work.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report by metsola & keller on the proposal of the european ombudsman concerning frontex. this report deals with the requirements for a complaints procedure following possible abuse by frontex staff. the proposed procedure is largely based on the procedural guidelines of other eu institutions, such as the ecb, which have very different requirements that are hardly transferable to frontex. in the past, it has been shown that a large proportion of complaints against frontex were unsubstantiated and most allegations of alleged human rights violations were unsubstantiated. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. since frontex is to be extended and is expected to have a wider mandate, the complaints procedure should also be included in the negotiations on the new mandate and adapted to the very specific needs of frontex. only in this way can it be ensured that frontex receives an appropriate complaints procedure that functions in a lasting way and does not restrict frontex in its important work.
in writing. ‒ i rejected the report by metsola & keller on the proposal of the european ombudsman concerning frontex. this report deals with the requirements for a complaints procedure following possible abuse by frontex staff. the proposed procedure is largely based on the procedural guidelines of other eu institutions, such as the ecb, which have very different requirements that are hardly transferable to frontex. in the past, it has been shown that a large proportion of complaints against frontex were unsubstantiated and allegations of human rights violations were baseless. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. since frontex is to be extended and is expected to have a wider mandate, the complaints procedure should also be included in the negotiations on the new mandate and adapted to the very specific needs of frontex. only in this way can it be ensured that frontex receives an appropriate complaints procedure which functions permanently and does not restrict frontex in its important work.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because i support the initiative to help cities and municipalities achieve better sustainability in transport and improved network infrastructures for all of europe. we need sustainable urban mobility with access to schools, workplaces, cultural, leisure and health facilities. but this access must be possible. i therefore welcome the fact that some of the overreaching demands banning conventional cars in all inner cities and introducing car-free sundays have been dropped.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on sustainable urban mobility in europe today because i think the paper's focus and focus is insufficient and in some cases wrong. urban mobility is indeed a major challenge. the commission has also been asked to consider the social aspect of the problem: how mobile are the elderly? what does mobility cost our families? are our cities also making people with disabilities mobile? how does the interconnection of urban and rural areas and urban metropolises work? many of these questions remain unanswered in the report.
in writing. ‒ sustainable transport is particularly important in urban transport. they can make a decisive contribution to achieving the eu's climate goals. however, practical and, above all, feasible solutions are needed. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem.
in writing. ‒ this report focused on promoting new sustainable transport modes in cities, with a focus on environmental aspects, a prioritisation of cyclists and pedestrians, and a better use of european funds and sustainable urban mobility plans. the key issue of the draft report for the ecr was a set of paragraphs undermining the subsidiarity principle of member states. furthermore our shadow rapporteur was keen to reduce any excessive promotion of electric vehicles by respecting a technology neutral approach. a strong opposition block was formed by the ppe, the ecr and alde during the negotiations. we decided to abstain. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished, because it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
i declare resumed the session adjourned on wednesday, 2 december 2015.
ladies and gentlemen, this weekend in paris, there was a huge breakthrough that many did not think possible: a global, groundbreaking, forward-looking climate agreement was agreed there! global, because for the first time, all the countries of the world are participating in the fight against climate change. breakthrough because now all countries recognize that we need to stay well below two degrees of global warming, and they even want to make efforts to limit the increase to 1.5 degrees celsius at most. and it's a landmark agreement, because we want to be a climate-neutral planet in the second half of this century. that means not emitting more greenhouse gases than the earth can handle. that is why paris is surely a turning point for the future of us all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. to do this, we must change a lot of things - above all in energy production and energy consumption. in paris, a five-year progress review mechanism was created, which will give us feedback every five years on how we are progressing along the way and where we need to do more to achieve the goals. the european union must implement this agreement internally and externally and must actually comply with the obligations arising from it. i would like to thank on behalf of the european parliament all those who have worked for years to make the paris conference a success. i would like to take this opportunity to thank you, commissioner arias cañete, for your work at this conference. we know you worked hard there! (applause from the centre) i would also like to thank the council. the luxembourg minister for the environment, mrs dieschbourg, has - as we all know - worked very closely with the commission as president-in-office of the council. i think that a great deal of thanks goes to the executive secretary, mrs figueres, but also to the secretary-general of the united nations, mr ban ki-moon. ladies and gentlemen, the french government, as the host of these events and as the organizer of the conference, has done an enormous job. this morning, assuming your agreement, i conveyed the european parliament's thanks and congratulations in a personal conversation to the president of the climate conference, french foreign minister laurent fabius, and invited him to present the results here in parliament, if he so wished. mr fabius has accepted the invitation and would like to speak to us in january on the outcome of the conference. i would like to thank once again all those who attended the conference and contributed to its success, including colleagues from all the political groups in this house. (applause from the centre)
the final draft agenda for this meeting, as adopted by the conference of presidents at its meeting on wednesday 9 december 2015 in accordance with rule 149 of the rules of procedure, has been distributed. before i come to the various items on the agenda, i would like to make a brief statement of procedure to the house in order to make one more request to you in connection with this statement of procedure. it is the report by mr gróbarczyk on the energy union. it is an owninitiative report. i have had more than 200 amendments, requests for separate votes or requests for separate votes on this own-initiative report. i asked the enf group, which had tabled the majority of the amendments, to check again whether all these amendments really needed to be tabled, because otherwise i would have rejected the motion and asked the committee to look at the amendments again. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am glad that the group has withdrawn some of them, so that we now have a total of 59 amendments, but there are still 40 requests for separate votes and 44 requests for separate votes. we have a rough estimate that you will be voting on this own-initiative report for about 45 minutes on tuesday. we've reduced it from about an hour and ten minutes to 45 minutes. i have received strong criticism from your own ranks at every plenary session, saying that the votes would take too long. you're right! i therefore ask you to think again very carefully about whether each separate vote, each separate vote, really has to be that way, whether each individual vote is really that necessary. you'd be giving yourself a little bit of relief. i have now decided not to refer this report back to committee, despite the fact that the minimum quotas have been significantly exceeded. but i will continue to ask the committees, when we have 200 to 300 amendments in own-initiative reports, to look at such a huge number of amendments again, because otherwise we will be over-crowding the voting hours in the plenary. now, we come to this week's schedule. i have no amendments to the agenda.
mr turmes, please! you know that the enf faction's proximity to me is relatively limited and vice versa. i would like to make a general comment. the tendency you have just described for the enf group is sometimes found in other groups. i have to tell you this. the tendency - i do not want to go into it in detail now, i do not want to defend the enf group on this issue, but it is not the only group to do so. that's why i'm taking your suggestion that we need a strategy. that was exactly the purpose of my communication. we need to think about how we can make these procedures a little more effective.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by mr marek józef gróbarczyk, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the road to a european energy union (2015/2113 (ini)) (a8-0341/2015) and the report by mr peter eriksson, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the achievement of the 10% electricity interconnection target and the preparation of the european electricity grid for 2020 (2015/2108 (ini)) (a8-0330/2015).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i was in kyoto 15 years ago with the then environment minister merkel and i've followed every climate summit since, but i've rarely seen an event where there was as much self-congratulation by politicians as this one. i think a little more modesty would have been appropriate. let's not forget that the 2°c target is a non-binding target. i suspect it will suffer the same fate as similar targets. remember, 0.7% for development aid, 3% for research and development? all those targets were missed. moreover, there is no indication of any market economy instrument. finally, i am afraid that europe will remain an expensive energy island and continue to export jobs, growth and wealth. i am also of the opinion that the euro as a single currency must be abolished.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr eriksson. we welcome this report - i want to make this clear - in contrast to the report on the energy union, which, in my view, is a long-ago report and in no way meets the requirements of the present. we support long-term eu climate change targets and renewable energy targets, which must also be binding at national, european and regional level. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. in this combination, we think it's good and right. i ask you: how far are we really going to get in all this discussion if, in the course of the expansion of the european electricity network and at the same time in spain, subsidies are actually being abolished for solar energy and solar electricity, if in germany the new tendering system for renewable energies is just as designed so that no small players can play a part here, but only the big players can access these things, if, for example, energy cooperatives play hardly any role? we believe that there must be room for large and small players to maintain the acceptance of renewable energy among citizens, also because such cooperatives are self-empowering and can provide decentralized electricity generation locally and among the people.
thank you very much, mr president, also for your very good german. after long intensive discussions in the committee, we have succeeded in producing a really very balanced report on the energy union. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs in particular for this. this report was produced in the run-up to the climate conference. on saturday, cop 21 also saw the signing of the first binding global climate agreement. the trend is also clear: away from environmentally harmful and carbon-intensive fossil fuels, towards renewable energy and energy efficiency. the report on the energy union reflects this trend and we therefore call, in particular to the council, for binding energy and climate targets for 2030. priority to renewable energy and energy efficiency and a new electricity market design for sustainable and decentralised energy supply.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's actually like this: what's happening in paris is historic, it's been said before. this makes the energy union and the energy transition more necessary than ever. it can also be said that the ambitious energy transition in germany was clearly right. there is only one thing that has been forgotten in paris and that has been overlooked in the energy union, in my view: the potential energy that can come from the sea, from the ocean. indeed, it is predicted that wave and tidal energy, although still in its infancy, may account for more than 10% of europe's energy supply in the near future. and you have to think about the fact that, for example, tidal energy is very predictable, so it's very predictable, that wave energy is particularly strong in winter, when the sun is shining less and we have less solar energy. i think it is very important to take this into account and i would ask you, commissioner, and all the others, to take the ocean into account even more in the future, especially in the long-term energy planning.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think we have all been shocked by the victims of the recent terrorist attacks in paris. i also believe that we can all agree that the shock and the horror that these terrorist attacks have caused, not just in western democracies, but around the world, must bring us together in protecting against such terrorist attacks, and of course in the fact that protecting victims means not only treating victims of terrorist attacks that have already happened in a special way, but also protecting against further attacks and thus producing new victims of terrorist attacks. but i believe that the interest of these victims above all is that we should gather the facts that we have at our disposal to provide such protection for the future, and not on the backs of victims of terrorist attacks to fuel an emotional debate and an emotional response. this applies both to the question of the causes of terrorism, which, if we look more closely, are to be found in the current crisis in the middle east and in the wars that are still taking place there and which we must resolve together as the european union, but also to the fact that many of these terrorist attackers have been radicalised in europe, above all in prisons, for example. we have to work to stop this and actually stem this radicalization. then it's about looking at the facts as well: what creates security? i think it has become clear that we need better cooperation between the european authorities, we need better information exchange and not unwarranted surveillance of all citizens. it is also inconsistent with the freedoms we are defending here against such terrorists.
member of the commission.– madam president, thank you for giving the commission the opportunity to react to this draft motion for a resolution on the implementing decision of the commission authorising the placing on the market of genetically modified maize nk603xt25 for food and feed. first of all, i would like to recall that the european regulatory system for gmos is among the strictest worldwide. it was adopted and agreed by the european parliament as the co-legislator. the decision on authorisation that you will discuss today, as with all other decisions on the authorisation of gmos for food and feed use, is adopted in accordance with the so-called examination procedure set out in regulation no 182/2011 on comitology. under this procedure, i acknowledge that the european parliament has a right of scrutiny concerning the question of whether the draft authorisation exceeds the implementing powers granted to the commission. from our point of view, this is not the case and i will try to explain why. this regulation provides that decisions on the authorisation of gmos for food and feed use are adopted by the commission following several procedural steps. therefore, allow me to clarify that these steps have been followed for the decision on the authorisation of the aforementioned maize. the application for authorisation to place this gmo on the eu market was submitted in 2010. the european food safety authority performed a comprehensive risk management of this product. this was based on the highest scientific standards, taking into account the positive expert opinions already granted separately for nk602 and t25, both of which are authorised in the eu. in july 2015, efsa published a favourable opinion which concluded that gm maize nk603xt25 is safe for human and animal health and for the environment. member states, of course, were able to comment on the risk assessment, and efsa has addressed all their comments in its final opinion. the public also commented on the efsa opinion, and all of the scientific comments which were received were scrutinised by efsa. based on the positive efsa opinion, the commission submitted a draft implementing decision for the authorisation of this gmo to a vote of the standing committee on 19 october 2015. the member states did not reach a qualified majority against or in favour of this draft decision. in accordance with the comitology rules and the gmo legislation, the commission proposed the draft decision of authorisation to the appeal committee on 10 november 2015. again, the member states did not reach a qualified majority in favour or against. all these procedural steps followed by the commission are fully in line with the existing legislation. therefore, i hope you will appreciate that the commission did not exceed its implementing powers, as it endeavoured to explain to members of the environment and public health committee on 1 december 2015. consequently, the commission continued to proceed with the draft authorisation decisions for maize nk603xt25 and adopted it on 4 december 2015.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is now 16 years since i negotiated, as rapporteur for my group in the conciliation procedure, the so-called release directive, which regulates the authorisation and cultivation of gmos in the european union. we have created the most rigorous gmo approval process in the world to date. and never before have there been so many green ministers responsible for this issue in the member states as at that time. everyone has said yes to this release policy. all the political groups in this parliament have said yes, it was an interparliamentary compromise. to stand back and say, "oh, this is poisoning us all", and to question this approval process - i've been hearing this for many years now, i can't stand it any longer. the admission procedure is in order, these are good rules. the commission has done the right thing in approving this maize. because the efsa said it was okay. that is what this law says, one of the strictest in the world. and then you stand up and say: 'oh, we as a parliament must not allow ourselves to be offered that.' no, the commission must decide because the member states do not decide, because they are still reluctant to take a decision for populist reasons. they're afraid of their own people. but what do you want with the rejection of this corn? can you explain to the public what happens when we run out of gmo food? we need them, we can only produce 5% of the soybeans we need. we can no longer feed our animals and you can no longer feed the population with alternative agriculture.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is a pity that mrs sommer has already left, because she should have heard that after 16 years you can also go through a learning process, that after 16 years you also have to rethink the admission process. i can only say that we are discussing two varieties of corn, glufosinate and glyphosate resistant, and we are always having a discussion about the substance glyphosate. and it's not closed, and i want to make that very clear. there is massive concern from the world health organization, which the efsa admittedly ignores. so we're causing increased use of glyphosate. we all need to be clear about that if we're going to allow it. and we are, of course, shifting the risks back to the global south, because we don't have any agriculture here. whose pressure is it always on? we have enough corn. it's just that we want cheaper raw materials, and that's the pressure from the feed industry that's causing us to talk about re-authorisation again. not that we couldn't make it ourselves, it's cheaper elsewhere. you have to see this. we are now importing seven million tonnes of maize, 25% of which is genetically modified. why do we have to increase this proportion? yes, i know that legally the commission does not have to listen to parliament now, but the commission should not ignore the vote of the envi committee. but it is a provocation - it must be said honestly - to give approval after a vote in the envi. it is also a provocation to develop a new procedure during the process which mr juncker has promised us, and to create facts during this process. the commission has been soundly defeated in its proposal, which everyone considered unsuitable. what would be the consequence? that the commission should come back to parliament with a new procedure, a more democratic procedure, a legally secure procedure and a review of the criteria of efsa and present a suitable proposal to have a new regulation of the authorization procedure, and not create new facts here which do not find a majority in parliament.
i have to say, madam president, i have already heard a lot from my colleagues. the things that need to be made explicit again are: this is not just about genetically modified food, but it is about genetically modified food that is designed to withstand glyphosate and glufosinate. this means that the combination is once again to be evaluated critically. that is why we have discussed this again in the committee on the environment and have set our sights accordingly. we have asked the commission to refrain from approving it. i still think that's right. the second reason has already been mentioned in this debate. we have not been able to agree in this parliament on how we intend to use genetically modified feed. this proposal, as has been said, was rejected by a large majority. so again, until we have a clear picture of this, we should not allow any more gm food.
member of the commission.– madam president, first of all let me say that i will of course transmit all your remarks and all your concerns to commissioner andriukaitis to allow him to respond in detail to your questions. allow me now to react to some of the comments made. firstly, many of you referred to the commitment that was made by president juncker. let me remind you that the commitment was to review the decision-making process for gmos in order to give more possibilities to member states to express their views and take into account the concerns of their citizens. the commitment was met with proposals that give legal capacity to the member states concerning the use of eu-authorised genetically-modified food and feed on their territory based on national reasons unrelated to risks to health and the environment. your draft resolution makes reference to the decision of the european parliament on 28 october 2015 to reject these legislative proposals. the commission regrets the decision of the european parliament, because the commission believes that this legislative proposal would enable member states to address, at national level, considerations which are not covered by the eu decision-making process. the commission, therefore, maintained this proposal, which should be discussed in the council at the beginning of 2016 as the next step in the ordinary legislative procedure. as a second point, i want to say that the commission is aware of your concerns as regards the herbicide glyphosate. i would like to recall that the approval of active substances for plant protection products, such as glyphosate, and the setting of maximum residue levels for herbicides in food and feed products are not regulated by gmo legislation, but by the regulation on pesticides and maximum residue levels. the review procedure for glyphosate is ongoing. please be reassured that your concerns are duly noted in this regard. as regards the request in the resolution to suspend gmo authorisation until the authorisation process is reviewed, allow me to stress that the commission has indeed reviewed the authorisation process. it has consequently proposed to amend the gmo legislation. the proposal is in codecision procedure, and, as usual, the rules in place continue to apply during the negotiations between the co-legislators and until a final agreement is reached. the commission can therefore only proceed with the gm food and feed application in compliance with the existing legal framework. in conclusion, let me call on you not to adopt this motion for a resolution. as i have tried to explain, the commission has fulfilled its duty without exceeding the implementing powers when authorising genetically modified maize nk603xt25.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs in advance, and also the commission, for the really good cooperation they have had over the last few months on this report. we have had constructive cooperation, several meetings of shadow rapporteurs, and we have been able to negotiate viable compromises, which have also found a large majority in the committee. i expect the same from the report here in the house. what is this report about? the aim was to review the implementation of the progress microfinance facility at the half-way point of its life, and to examine how effectively and sustainably new lives can be created by giving unemployed and disadvantaged people access to credit that they would not otherwise have because of their social situation. but it was also a question of investigating whether there were any shortcomings in this instrument. what is the progress financial instrument? it started in 2010 with a volume of 205 million euros, initially financed from the progress programme of the same name. since 2013, there has been a new financial basis called easi, which is the instrument for labour and social innovation. the financial support provided by progress enabled lenders to extend more loans to those at higher risk of default through wider refinancing. we have found a low risk of failure of no more than 5%. the progress microfinance facility is now available in 22 of the 28 member states, soon to be 23 with croatia. what did we find? progress it is a working social policy instrument and it is doing something especially in times of financial crisis. this is confirmed by the european court of auditors' inquiry this year. it helps to achieve the employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, because most jobs are created in micro-enterprises, and that is where the instrument starts. it supports the building and maintenance of existence. this is further confirmed by the high number of microcredit loans. progress is beneficial to the european taxpayer and valuable to society. the unemployed are given a chance to start a business that pays taxes and creates jobs. it's cheaper than paying out transfer fees. the conditions for granting loans were almost met. 13 252 micro-credits were granted, amounting to eur 124.6 million, slightly below the target of eur 142.4 million. the following were identified as target groups: some colleagues wanted to give a more detailed account of the number of beneficiaries, which others found problematic in view of the limited financial resources of only eur 205 million. i think that a viable middle ground has been found here. the proportion of women is very high: 37% of the beneficiaries are women entrepreneurs. progress is thus far short of its 40% target. we want to see a balance between 50% of men and 50% of women in the future. less well reached are disadvantaged groups and minorities. we also found that indicators developed for data collection were often inappropriate and insufficiently detailed, and that we knew too little about the needs and survival rates of microenterprises. we also found that social enterprises were less well supplied with credit. the problem has already been identified. under easi, the financial capacity of social enterprises has been significantly improved. however, the specific programme of credit intermediaries for these companies is not available today. i look forward to the debate and will make a further statement afterwards.
member of the commission.– madam president, our debate today demonstrates that we largely share the same position as regards the need not only to pursue the support provided under the progress microfinance scheme, but also to improve its performance and coverage. therefore, i am confident that the newly designed employment and social innovation (easi) programme and its specific features relating to the social economy or outreach to people at risk of financial exclusion, such as migrants or refugees, will better meet the needs we have both identified. i am particularly satisfied about the excellent cooperation we have established with the eib group so far and the strong start for the easi programme. in this respect, i look forward to developing further the magnitude and effectiveness of the financial support provided by the eu to more people willing to progress from being jobseekers to becoming job creators.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank all those who took part in this debate. i also thank all those who have contributed to this report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we have also heard today, and not only read in the report, that there is still room for improvement and we have very high hopes for the easi programme. we have had several hearings, once in the empl committee and also a hearing organized by mrs weber of the alde group. we've heard from beneficiaries in these hearings. it was very interesting, not only for me as a reporter, but for all those involved, and in some cases very impressive, what you saw there, because you really saw that people who had no chance at all in the normal market to get loans, got loans and made very successful business out of them, some of them were able to start businesses, which could hire more employees, some of them were even able to expand, and yet we saw a successful program there. but essentially, we also saw that with relatively little money, you can achieve a lot, a lot. i look forward - and i think all those who have contributed to the report - to seeing what happens in the next few years. we'll be watching this very closely. i would also like to thank the commission in particular for what we have heard here today. in conclusion, i would like to thank you again for the last few months. it was my first report in this house and i was very pleased to be involved in it. i look forward to working with you on other reports as well.
i have to say, madam president, i am very grateful to mr gabriel mato for bringing this own-initiative report to parliament now so that we can clearly define our position before the commission releases the draft technical measures and the control regulation. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. this creates a great distance between the small and artisanal fisheries sector, coastal fisheries, but also deep-sea fisheries and the european union, and we want to reduce this. there are so many unspoken rules that if you have a quota, you have to keep a record of the days you are actually at sea. then there is the one-net rule, which does not work at all for small vessels in small-scale fishing, and social benefits must also be paid. that is why we need this clear definition. the fisherman really only needs three or four things, which we have clearly regulated in principle for his craft. this means that the fishing area, the quota he needs for the particular species, he must have a mesh size, a drive power and a control institution which then controls his catch and lands.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. on 15 november this year, regional elections were held in ukraine. i have a report from election observers in the city of dnipropetrovsk which states, among other things: in one polling station, the election director and others were removed with the help of a document that was neither signed nor had an official stamp. alleged election observers, dressed in white vests, influenced voters, paying up to 500 hryvnia for the right vote, among other things. in the city centre, militias were on the move, and other election observers were removed from polling stations, some by force. on 27 june 2014, we witnessed the signing of an association agreement between the european union and ukraine. the commission has already decided to provide eur 1.8 billion in aid in march this year, and in july this year eur 600 million had already been disbursed. i think it would not be too much to ask the european union to look a little more closely at this and see what happens with this money and in particular which government it is supporting at this point.
i am not going to go into detail. today's debate is a first and certainly a success for parliament. another area of eu policy is now becoming a bit more democratic as a result of this debate. the president of the eurogroup, jeroen dijsselbloem, is taking part in a debate here in the house for the first time, to discuss with the directly elected members the way forward in economic and monetary union. this debate is a crucial step towards greater democratic accountability and parliamentary scrutiny in economic and monetary union. this improvement in democratic legitimacy is also a central demand of the five presidents' report, which both president juncker and president dijsselbloem wrote together with myself and mr draghi. the debate today shows that parliament is prepared to take up its responsibility in this area and to live up to it. i am not going to go into detail. this debate is a first - i said it - but it is also needed, because the impression that important decisions in brussels are primarily taken behind closed doors is a very big problem for many people in europe. the aim of this debate is to counteract this and to make it as transparent and public as possible. however, this debate is only a step. the president of the eurogroup has so far regularly addressed the economic and monetary affairs committee. the debate today is not intended to be a one-off event, mr dijsselbloem, we have already discussed this. the european parliament - and i also raised this point in the debate on the five presidents' report - wants full say in order to make economic and monetary union truly democratic. the european commission i warmly welcome president juncker has for the first time presented the recommendations for the euro area together with the annual growth report. this is also going in the right direction. the situation in the euro area as a whole, rather than always being broken down into individual countries, can help to better understand interrelationships and transnational developments. i am glad that the debate is taking place and i hope that this discussion between parliament and you, mr dijsselbloem, can be repeated soon. i am glad you came today and i would also like to thank you personally for your willingness to speak in parliament today.
thank you for the full house praise. thank you for the information on who should speak from where. we'll take that into account.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the three presidents, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and what is even more interesting is the answers given by the majority groups in this house - the christian democrats, the social democrats, the greens and the liberals - which i do not see, but which may also be there. questions are being asked, such as: why do we have an investment gap in the eurozone? why do we have so little private investment, despite the lowest interest rates? the answers are basically given in the form of: we do not know for sure, but it is not the euro. the question arises: why do we not have inflation in the eurozone despite the extremely expansionary monetary policy of the european central bank? the answer is: we do not know, but it is not the euro. the question is: why do we have rising public debt in europe, for five years now, still rising public debt, since we really tried to limit, limit and reduce public debt to sustainable levels? the answer is: we do not know, but it is certainly not the euro. the question is: why does the eurozone have the weakest growth of all the major economic regions in the world, despite structural reforms, despite falling oil prices, despite a depreciating euro? the answer is essentially: we do not know, but it is not the euro. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to look back at what we were trying to achieve with the euro. we wanted to have a zone of growth and stability. what we have got is a zone where public debts are now double or sometimes even triple the allowable in many countries, where unemployment is alarmingly high in many eurozone countries - including youth unemployment - where banks are sitting on bad loans, where the ecb is printing money in droves and is not prepared to give an end, where savers are afraid for their retirement because they will no longer receive interest on their assets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the french star economist piketty says: the architecture of the euro is a monster. i'm afraid after reading the five presidents' report, he hasn't changed his mind. the german wage growth has been too weak for many years, and germany's export surpluses and capital exports have pushed southern europe into private debt. the cuts in public spending, wages and pensions were a fiasco, they deepened the depression. the more competitive the eurozone became, the deeper the depression became. germany has an export surplus of 8% of gdp. this is against all the rules of a monetary union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. the left rejects this, as does the german trade union confederation. the stability and growth pact is holding back investment despite low interest rates. and we need to invest right now in the refugee crisis to end the state's failure in housing, in education, in health. we need public investment because the fed may raise interest rates tomorrow, because the cheap money of the ecb ends up in the financial markets, but not for investment by companies and households. the mechanism against economic shocks is to be used when euro countries undergo permanent shock therapy, i.e. wage and pension cuts. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is not left behind.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have listened to this debate with great interest and i think that the dilemma facing the economic and monetary union is clearly felt here. the european parliament has been in the forefront of the debate on the future of the euro, and it is not just the european parliament that has been in the forefront of the debate on the future of the euro. on the other hand, we hear the different variations of pro-europeans making different reform proposals, each limited by their different taboos. some people don't want to talk about the social crisis, others just want to talk about investment, others like to talk about reducing debt and so on, it's back and forth. the result is clear: proposals on the lowest common denominator. and so, in this form, the first step of the five presidents paper is laid out. that is to say, we see the major problems we have within the eurozone, but we do not dare to make these proposals, partly because, in addition to the fear, there is another taboo, the taboo of many pro-europeans: sharing more sovereignty with each other. this maximisation of various taboos leads to political incompetence and thus feeds the political frustration of those who think that the eu and especially the euro are to blame for everything. i think we are really in a critical situation, if we do not make it clear that the eurozone is to be launched with a deep reform, then this euro will probably not be able to hold. the situation in the markets, at the long end of the yield curve, is so bad, the investment momentum is so low despite the situation of low interest rates we need a decisive policy. i think that the various players must overcome their taboos. this means that we must both introduce reforms to increase competitiveness and finally introduce a common tax policy which ensures that even the richest people in the union are not left to fend for themselves. we need a banking union that clarifies on both sides, shares risks, but also reduces risks accordingly and tackles difficult issues such as the valuation of government bonds. we also need a capital markets union. but not one which leaves out the difficult issues in the first place and therefore will not produce its result. the only tragedy is that the actors, the president of the eurogroup, perhaps the german-french axis, the european parliament and the commission, do not have the courage to make such large, wide-ranging pro-european proposals. this is exactly what the eurozone needs now: we do not need despair, we do not need to retreat from europe's opponents, but we need bold reforms. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for asking. the crisis has clearly seen reforms, particularly in countries that were under pressure. but there the social burden was unilaterally shifted to the weaker and the medium-sized enterprises. we have not, however, adopted a common fiscal and tax policy. unfortunately, the eurogroup has allowed a policy mix to be made in the countries, which has unilaterally shifted the burden onto the weakest. that would be something that could be overcome. this means that the eurozone needs both a social and ecological investment policy and signs of social compensation, for example in the form of a common unemployment insurance scheme, as proposed by many economists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the approach of populists is simple answers to complex issues. we are hearing again this morning that the euro is to blame for everything and everyone. that this cannot be a satisfactory and, above all, correct answer, is known to all experts. the euro is neither the cause nor the solution of the problems. the euro is a currency. there are countries that have the euro, they are in crisis, that's true. but there are also countries that do not have the euro, that are also in crisis. so it can't be the euro. but the fact is that in an economic and monetary union the adjustment mechanism is not about the currency. it must then be carried out in a real economy. that is why we need not only monetary union but also economic union. in the economic union we need a common understanding of how this market economy works. there are the nationalists, the statist and the socialists, and they are calling for more government, for jobs programmes financed by the economic cycle. we know that these can only be false flags that mislead. in a continent where the population is declining, in a continent where we have built our prosperity on technological progress, on innovation, the only way to sustain future prosperity is to address and strengthen these very issues. competitiveness must be the focus. if citizens cannot develop products in companies every day that anyone in the world needs, that can be sold on world markets, we will not secure our prosperity. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information it receives, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take action in this area. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in the eurozone, the eurozone only compensates for 40% of national income shocks. in the usa, it is 80% in the usa through an integrated capital market, through better functioning credit markets, through a functioning banking union and also through functioning tax transfers. i believe that we must do the same in the european economic and monetary union. the question will be: what happens to the countries that are not in the euro? i say: we must respect the maastricht treaty and finally implement it in accordance with the law. everyone who can should join the euro, then things would be much easier.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the eurogroup! for many, many years we have been writing down in the treaties and in the rules of procedure how we can envisage a common currency. and as soon as we had decided something, we said: 'this is far from enough, we need to take new steps.' but we'd have to do something completely different. but what we had decided on up to then we did not implement. i believe that if the euro is sick, then what was decided in brussels by those who participate in the euro should be implemented at home. instead, you go back to brussels and say: 'we should have added this and that.' the euro will not work if you say, i will transfer responsibility to the european level, to an international level, but i will continue to have budgetary responsibility at national level. i have continued to study macroeconomics at national level. then this won't work. so, spending without being responsible doesn't work. having macroeconomic responsibility but not wanting to be accountable for it doesn't work. i therefore very much criticise the five presidents' report because it does not analyse what has already been agreed and what is not being respected. before we discuss new steps with each other, we should first of all be able to see clearly what is not working. it is not enough to say, madam berès, that hollande has made some reforms and more than his predecessors. france is not reforming enough! point from end! france has been violating the stability and growth pact for many years! point from end. you can't lie to yourself. i could do that for other countries. i would like to point out that the country which exports the most in the european union also does so in a labour-sharing way. most countries in the eurozone and the european union also benefit from this. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think this is a futile discussion. i can confirm this with a product: a german car has about an 80% share of value added in the whole of the european union outside germany. a french car has a value added of 70% of parts made only in france. so to accuse us of making profits at the expense of others is simply not fair.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the exchange between my colleague and my colleague just now showed that if we continue in this way in the euro zone, these conflicts will get worse and worse. it is quite clear to me that in the long term monetary union will only work with a euro government, a euro parliament and a budget for the euro area. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in the end, there will be no fiscal backstop without this. unfortunately, the first part of the five presidents' report is a cliffhanger on this issue, and the crucial questions about the future of the eurozone will only be answered in the second part. the questions to be answered are: what exactly is democratic decision-making in the eurozone supposed to look like? what is the fiscal capacity for the euro area? how will it be financed? how will they be decided? but above all, how can the eurozone simultaneously offer a proper macroeconomic insurance and finally harden the budgetary constraints of the individual member states? because we have a massive problem there, too. the maastricht treaty, as we all know, was not credible on this issue. getting clear and honest answers to these questions in the super election year of 2017 is not easy. i know you did. but it would be very dangerous not to give these clear and honest answers for the super election year of 2017. because that would damage what really holds the euro together: the basic trust that the majority of europeans still have in the common project. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr von weizsäcker, do you agree with me that the question of how much integration and, above all, how much joint supervision we need at european level, i.e. how much communityisation, also depends on how well the individual euro-zone member states comply with the rules? the more the member states commit themselves to implementing structural reforms and fiscal discipline, for example, the less intensive the intervention options at european level need to be.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: of course, we need not only common rules, but we must also abide by them. and the big problem today is that we can't know whether individual states don't follow the rules because the rules are so bad that you can't follow them, or whether they don't follow the rules because they don't want to follow the rules at all. only when we have sensible rules, a sensible architecture for the euro, will we be able to answer this question.
ladies and gentlemen, mr dijsselbloem had informed us before this debate that he would have to leave at 11 a.m. for a meeting which he could not postpone. i told you that in advance. i am grateful to you, however, for having postponed that date for us this morning and for having been present for those two hours - or more than two hours - in parliament. we're looking forward to seeing you again soon, mr. dijsselbloem. so, the invitation to you is a permanent one. i think the outcome of the debate is also clear. the eurogroup president's accountability to parliament cannot be limited to a committee, but must take place here in the plenary. so we're grateful that you've opened this new chapter with us. we have to discuss how we are going to proceed structurally. anyway, thank you for this morning.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the debate today is headed: five presidents for the euro further proof that offices do not necessarily impart wisdom or even intelligence. the euro has caused low economic growth in the euro zone, high unemployment, social tensions, imbalances between economies, political tensions. ladies and gentlemen of the alde group, when asked today: where are the liberals? i say to you: it is not enough to call yourself a liberal, you must also pursue liberal policies. when mr theurer says that the euro is neither a problem nor a solution and blames the statist, i ask: who is running the centralised european deposit guarantee? who is building up bureaucracy under the label of the single market? who among you does not dream of social and fiscal union, criticise economic programmes and adopt a juncker-style trick with 315 billion euros? then let us be in favour of free monetary competition! the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. read your hayek for once. then you'll find that the solution is free market money. that would be liberal. the euro is anti-competitive, anti-social, statist and its practice is unlawful!
i have to say, madam president, a gold-backed currency enjoys confidence because the banknotes in circulation can be redeemed for gold at any time. with a paper currency, as we have it, the citizens must trust the central bank that is responsible for that currency. what can the citizens of the euro area trust? mario draghi and his crew? mario draghi is blowing up the ecb's balance sheet. he's printing money to buy government bonds. he says he wants to fight deflation. we have no europe-wide deflation, and there is no deflation coming. this is a very good reason for monetary state financing. there is only one reason for inflation: the financing of the state budget by the printing press. real asset prices are still rising. this is a deliberate redistribution from poor to rich. prices for consumer goods will follow. draghi is handling dynamite. if it goes up, i warn you, it will destroy the european monetary union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. thank you for the debate this morning. i think it is important that we look beyond crisis management to the question of the further development of economic and monetary union. but any debate must begin with an analysis of the status quo: where are we? mr dijsselbloem has pointed out this morning, and mr juncker has also pointed out: there are a number of measures, of rules, which we have adopted in recent months and years, which we have put in place. it is important, and part of the credibility and confidence in our economic and monetary union, that the measures and rules adopted are also implemented consistently. the member states are the first to be called upon to do so. many colleagues have raised it. i share that view. it is primarily about structural reforms, it is about consolidating budgets, it is about reducing debt. we can develop europe, at european level, however we want, but if the homework is not done in the member states, we will not make any progress. i am also very confident, or i am glad to have heard from commission president juncker this morning that we should make better use of the instruments we have, that we should make consistent use of them. so he's made it very clear, thank god, that the six-pack and the two-pack are not going to be untied, and i support that, too. and finally, we are discussing the com munication of deposit insurance. i think that's the wrong move at the moment. first we must implement the existing directive, bind the member states, and then we can think about further steps.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. our foundation is the anchor of fiscal stability laid down in the treaties, our foundation is the stability and growth pact, which commits each individual member state and thus each euro state to a sustainable economic policy. a euro-zone view should not distract from the fact that member states have lived beyond their means for years and must be held accountable for this. a euro-area view must clearly show that the path to greater competitiveness lies first and foremost within the responsibility of the individual countries themselves. if the commission uses the european fiscal council to expose the failings in the member states, if the commission ensures that the european fiscal council will work independently, then it certainly has our support for it. and when the commission addresses structural weaknesses in the member states and strengthens the principle of liability, we also give full support. and when the commission criticises the interlinkages between sovereign debt and banking risks, and in doing so puts the emphasis on targeted measures to reduce risk and reduce debt, we are certainly on its side. we will not, however, give support if efforts to achieve greater convergence are to distract from national responsibilities. we do not support the promotion of economic policies for the euro area which create the wrong incentives in the fiscal policies of individual member states, and we certainly do not support the promotion of the pooling of risks outside the principle of liability. we call on the commission, mr dombrovskis, to stick to what the founding fathers of economic and monetary union told us: they linked economic and monetary union with the promise of lasting stability. we all have a duty to keep that promise.
the next item is the voting time. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
in writing. ‒ the swiss confederation's participation has so far been based on informal and voluntary participation in the european distribution of asylum seekers. this is now being formally established. the commission has already taken a number of important decisions in this area.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the european asylum support office (easo) was launched. the objectives of this office are to strengthen practical cooperation between eu member states in the field of asylum and to assist individual states in addressing acute migration challenges. the project was already intended to include other european countries such as norway, iceland, liechtenstein and switzerland. negotiations were opened with these four countries. the case in point is about involving switzerland in the work of easo after the eu-switzerland negotiations have been concluded. the report recommends the inclusion of switzerland. the report is based on the fact that switzerland has shown in recent years a broadly rational approach to the challenges of asylum and migration. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the european asylum support office (easo) was established. the objectives of this office are to strengthen practical cooperation between eu member states in the field of asylum and to assist individual states in addressing acute migration challenges. the project was already intended to include other european countries such as norway, iceland, liechtenstein and switzerland. negotiations were opened with these four countries. the case in point is about involving switzerland in the work of easo after the eu-switzerland negotiations have been concluded. the report recommends the inclusion of switzerland. the report is based on the fact that switzerland has shown in recent years a broadly rational approach to the challenges of asylum and migration.
in writing. ‒ in 2010, the european asylum support office (easo) was launched. the objectives of this office are to strengthen practical cooperation between eu member states in the field of asylum and to assist individual states in addressing acute migration challenges. the project was already intended to include other european countries such as norway, iceland, liechtenstein and switzerland. negotiations were opened with these four countries. the case in point is about involving switzerland in the work of easo after the eu-switzerland negotiations have been concluded. the report recommends the inclusion of switzerland. the report is based on the fact that switzerland has shown in recent years a broadly rational approach to the challenges of asylum and migration.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between the european states and dominica. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens, were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ today, as coordinator of my group for the eu-acp dialogue, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu/vanuatu agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that rapprochement is valuable and that for me this includes simplifying tourist bureaucracies.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between the european states and vanuatu. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens, were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ as coordinator of my group for the eu-acp dialogue, i voted today for the recommendation on the eu/trinidad and tobago agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that approximation is valuable and that for me this includes simplifying tourist bureaucracies.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between the european states and trinidad and tobago. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens, were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ today, as coordinator of my group for the eu-acp dialogue, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu-samoa agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that rapprochement is valuable and that for me this includes simplifying tourist bureaucracies.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between european countries and samoa. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ today, as coordinator of my group for the eu-acp dialogue, i voted in favour of the recommendation on the eu/grenada agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that rapprochement is valuable and that for me this includes simplifying tourist bureaucracies.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between the european states and grenada. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens, were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the recommendation on the eu-timor leste agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that rapprochement is valuable and i also believe that this includes simplifying tourist bureaucracies.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between the european states and timor-leste. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens, were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the recommendation on the eu/st lucia agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that approximation is valuable and i also believe that this includes simplifying tourist bureaucracies.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between the european states and st lucia. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens, were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the recommendation on the eu-st vincent and the grenadines agreement on the short-stay visa waiver, as i believe that rapprochement is valuable and that for me this includes simplifying tourist bureaucracies.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between the european states and st vincent and the grenadines. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens, were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the eu/uae agreement on the short-stay visa waiver today because i do not support such cooperation with states that clearly have shortcomings in respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ the agreement is another step towards intensifying cooperation between european countries and the united arab emirates. in particular, simple short stays make an important contribution to cultural exchange and economic development.
in writing. ‒ short-stay visa waiver agreements, which would provide visa-free travel for citizens, were signed in may 2015 between the eu and st lucia, the commonwealth of dominica, grenada, st vincent and the grenadines, the republic of vanuatu, the independent state of samoa, the republic of trinidad and tobago, the united arab emirates and timor-leste. the visa would cover a period of 90 days out of any 180-day period. the agreement has received unanimous support in the council and will not apply to the united kingdom and ireland. since this agreement will likely increase commercial opportunities through increased tourism and promote commercial opportunities, which i strongly support, i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the agreement between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust, as i consider it extremely important to strengthen the operational cooperation of the two agencies in the fight against piracy and unfair competition in europe.
in writing. ‒ coordinated cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and eurojust is an important contribution to the achievement of the objectives of both bodies. at the same time, it strengthens law enforcement within europe.
in writing. ‒ the draft implementing decision formalises the memorandum of understanding between the office for harmonisation in the internal market and eurojust, which aims at fostering cooperation between the two institutions and contributes to a better performance. this understanding is therefore in the interest of both institutions and i have voted in favour of it. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on methods and procedures for the provision of traditional, vat and gni own resources and measures to provide the necessary cash resources, as i consider the technical proposals made therein to improve the procedures to be correct and appropriate.
in writing. ‒ it is important to specify exactly when and how member states must meet their individual financial obligations to the commission. this is the only way to ensure good and, above all, efficient work.
in writing. ‒ on 14 september 2015 the commission proposed an amendment to the legislative package on own resources agreed in may 2014, which would provide member states with more time to pay for larger than expected adjustments in their vat and gni-based contributions to the eu budget by informing them earlier about bills. interest rate on late payments would also be increased from 2% to 3.5% but would be capped at 20%. furthermore, the amendment aims at increasing the amount of vat and gni-based contributions they can draw forward over a longer period of time. though parliament’s report contains good elements, it introduces elements which politicise the process, such as a call for a fundamental reform of the system of own resources. i therefore voted against it. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: finland's application egf/2015/005 fi/computer programming, as i consider the instrument of the globalisation adjustment fund itself to be inefficient and in need of reform.
in writing. ‒ europe has benefited from the continuing globalisation and will continue to do so in the future. we must give citizens who have lost their jobs as a result of international competition consistent support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ finland had applied for aid for a computer company in difficulty. the european globalisation adjustment fund should do this; that's just a euphemism for subsidies. i believe that it is up to the companies themselves to assert themselves in the global market for computer programming. when the german companies zuse, nixdorf, triumph-adler, siemens, telefunken withdrew from the computer business, no one helped them either. it was a matter of course for me to vote against it with my colleagues from the alfa! i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ finland has applied for aid under the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to help a computer company in difficulty. this instrument rejects the alfa on fundamental grounds. the commission will be able to take part in the discussions on the future of the european union. the eu should only become competent if this leads to improvement and simplification. payments from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) do not appear to comply with those requirements. moreover, this instrument tends to support large enterprises while small firms do not benefit, although they too face the challenges of globalisation. that is why i voted against the motion.
in writing. ‒ finland had applied for aid for a computer company in difficulty. the european globalisation adjustment fund should do this; that's just a euphemism for subsidies. i believe that it is up to the companies themselves to assert themselves in the global market for computer programming. when the german companies zuse, nixdorf, triumph-adler, siemens, telefunken withdrew from the computer business, no one helped them either. it was a matter of course for me to vote against it with my colleagues from the alfa!
in writing. ‒ finland had applied for aid for a computer company in difficulty. the european globalisation adjustment fund should be used for this purpose; that's just a euphemism for subsidies. i believe that it is up to the companies themselves to assert themselves in the global market for computer programming. when the german companies zuse, nixdorf, triumph-adler, siemens, telefunken withdrew from the computer business, no one helped them either. it was a matter of course for me to agree with my colleagues from the alfa!
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the recognition and registration of trade marks is an incentive for innovation and economic growth. clear provisions will increase legal certainty and create better instruments for cooperation between the office for harmonization in the internal market and national trade mark protection authorities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the eu trade mark report today because i welcome the renaming of the existing 'community trade mark' and i support measures such as this, which help family businesses and smes in the eu in particular to better protect their property rights, innovations and ideas.
in writing. ‒ a union trade mark will make it possible to register a trade mark much more quickly in the future. at the same time, there is more protection for the owner, as control is considerably simplified. i think this is a clear example of the advantages of european cooperation.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind this proposal is to make the systems for protecting trade marks (logos, etc.) in the different member states compatible with each other and with the european office for harmonisation (ohim). this is a sensible approach in a common internal market. it respects the principle of subsidiarity and encourages competition among producers. consumer protection is taken into account by the recognition of trade marks. this legislation is accompanied by the directive to the national states on trade marks, which i have approved. however, the implementation of this part, namely the reform of the cfsp, is not what i had in mind. in particular, i believe that fees for the registration of trade marks should only cover the costs of the registration. however, in practice, the hamc makes profits through excessive fees, which also flow directly to the eu budget. that is why i cannot agree to this proposal and have abstained. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind this proposal is to make the systems for protecting trade marks (logos, etc.) in the different member states compatible. this is a sensible approach in a common internal market. it respects the principle of subsidiarity and encourages competition among producers. consumer protection is taken into account by the recognition of trade marks. this legislation is accompanied by the directive to the national states on trade marks, which i have approved. however, the implementation of the part concerning the reform of the european office for harmonisation (ohim) is problematic. in particular, i believe that fees for the registration of trade marks should only cover the costs of the registration. however, in practice, the hamc makes profits through excessive fees, which also flow directly to the eu budget. that is why i cannot agree to this proposal and i have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind this proposal is to make the systems for protecting trade marks (logos, etc.) in the different member states compatible with each other and with the european office for harmonisation (ohim). this is a sensible approach in a common internal market. it respects the principle of subsidiarity and encourages competition among producers. consumer protection is taken into account by the recognition of trade marks. this legislation is accompanied by the directive to the national states on trade marks, which i have approved. however, the implementation of this part, namely the reform of the cfsp, is not what i had in mind. in particular, i believe that fees for the registration of trade marks should only cover the costs of the registration. however, in practice, the hamc makes profits through excessive fees, which also flow directly to the eu budget. that is why i cannot agree to this proposal and have abstained.
in writing. ‒ the advantages of a community trade mark are clear: a single registration applied for online in one language is valid in all eu member states. it thus guarantees the rights of the trade mark proprietor in all present and future member states of the european union at reasonable cost. the fees were an important aspect of the discussion with the council. we have succeeded in parliament in reducing these costs so that the community trade mark can be a success. we have also succeeded in making the community trade mark an effective means of combating product piracy, and have thus created greater security for the european consumer and industry. i therefore voted in favour of the report today and i am glad that we have taken another important step towards completing the internal market.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind this proposal is to make the systems for protecting trade marks (logos, etc.) in the different member states compatible with each other and with the european office for harmonisation (ohim). this is a sensible approach in a common internal market. it respects the principle of subsidiarity and encourages competition among producers. consumer protection is taken into account by the recognition of trade marks. this legislation is accompanied by the directive to the national states on trade marks, which i have approved. however, the implementation of this part, namely the reform of the cfsp, is not what i had in mind. in particular, i believe that fees for the registration of trade marks should only cover the costs of the registration. however, in practice, the hamc makes profits through excessive fees, which also flow directly to the eu budget. that is why i cannot agree to this proposal and have abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because the new rules will provide greater legal certainty for manufacturers and trademark holders, and will also better protect consumers who trust trademarks. this requires adaptation and modernisation of procedures at both european and national level. this report is an important step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ this proposal will make it much easier to register european trademarks in the future. at the same time, the protection and control of existing trade marks will be considerably improved. i think this is an important step and i fully support it.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind this proposal is to make the systems for protecting trade marks (logos, etc.) in the different member states compatible with each other and with the european office for harmonisation (ohim). this is a sensible approach in a common internal market. it respects the principle of subsidiarity. the directive strengthens competition between producers and takes account of consumer protection through the recognition of trade marks. that is why i voted for this proposal. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind this proposal is to make the systems for protecting trade marks (logos, etc.) in the different member states compatible with each other and with the european office for harmonisation (ohim). this is a sensible approach in a common internal market. it respects the principle of subsidiarity. the directive strengthens competition between producers and takes account of consumer protection through the recognition of trade marks. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind this proposal is to make the systems for protecting trade marks (logos, etc.) in the different member states compatible with each other and with the european office for harmonisation (ohim). this is a sensible approach in a common internal market. it respects the principle of subsidiarity. the directive strengthens competition between producers and takes account of consumer protection through the recognition of trade marks. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ the idea behind this proposal is to make the systems for protecting trade marks (logos, etc.) in the different member states compatible with each other and with the european office for harmonisation (ohim). this is a sensible approach in a common internal market. it respects the principle of subsidiarity. the directive strengthens competition between producers and takes account of consumer protection through the recognition of trade marks. that is why i voted for this proposal.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the control and enforcement regime applicable to fisheries in the north-east atlantic, as i believe that rules are useful to protect our fish stocks and at the same time are also applicable to small and medium-sized maritime enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the sustainable use of fisheries resources in the north-east atlantic is important to meet our environmental responsibilities. future generations should also benefit from the wealth of the seas. this report is a crucial contribution to this.
in writing. ‒ with this proposal, the measures which have been signed up to in the neafc (north east atlantic fisheries commission) convention will be transposed into eu law. the measures will only apply to the north east corner of the atlantic, and deal with communication of transhipments and port landings, provisions for port state control and aspects of foreign fishing vessels and infringement procedures. these measures are already applicable to the member states, and therefore the regulation's purpose is to give additional legal certainty and to fulfil the eu's international obligations, which is why i have voted in favour of this proposal. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the suspension of special trade measures in respect of bosnia and herzegovina, as it maintains the long-term accession scenario as proposed by parliament, while also recalling the unwavering rules and conditions which must be respected in the long term.
in writing. ‒ an extension of the autonomous trade agreement is only possible if bosnia and herzegovina accepts the terms of an interim agreement. only after a trade adjustment can existing trade concessions be reintroduced by the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on strategic cooperation between the united arab emirates and europol in the fight against serious crime and terrorism, as i consider the approach important in the fight against globally networked terrorism, while parliament makes clear that this dialogue does not involve the exchange of personal data. at the same time, it's important for me to see this kind of cooperation for myself. it is not a lie that the united arab emirates continues to violate fundamental and human rights, which europe cannot tolerate, also in view of the forthcoming world cup.
in writing. ‒ the uae is becoming increasingly important in the successful fight against organised crime. this is why closer cooperation is important and forward-looking.
in writing. ‒ the terms of the cooperation between europol and the united arab emirates are covered by the strategic agreement and provide for the exchange of information (specialist knowledge, information on crime-prevention methods, results of strategic analysis...), participation in training activities and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. the exchange of personal data is not covered by the agreement. i have voted in favour of this report because i support this cooperation as dictated by the strategic agreement. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the road to a european energy union, as i consider the project to be very important if we are to guarantee our citizens a secure, affordable, independent and sustainable energy supply in the long term. europe has not done its homework here, also because of national positions of blockade. i also stress that the path to a common energy policy can only work on a road which says goodbye to high-carbon energy production and nuclear energy and waits in the field of fracking until a risk to man and the environment can be really excluded. no country can be forced to frack.
in writing. ‒ the energy union ensures that europe continues to play a leading role in international competition with other countries. at the same time, it makes a decisive contribution to achieving the climate goals. citizens will also benefit from a european energy market through falling electricity prices.
in writing. ‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy. the report was initially balanced and reasonable. it has been significantly weakened by many amendments. for example, technology openness and neutrality have been abolished and replaced by arbitrary, unilateral regulatory targets. i am firmly convinced that parliament must be guided by council decisions when setting targets, rather than arbitrarily proposing high, difficult-to-achieve targets. the member states should be better informed about what is realistic and feasible and what is not. the report has taken on a one-dimensional and anti-technological character because of the numerous amendments which have been tabled. i have therefore decided to vote against it. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy. the report was initially balanced and reasonable. it has been significantly weakened by many amendments. for example, technology openness and neutrality have been abolished and replaced by arbitrary, unilateral regulatory targets. the report has taken on a one-dimensional and anti-technological character because of the numerous amendments which have been tabled. i have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy. the report was initially balanced and reasonable. it has been significantly weakened by many amendments. for example, technology openness and neutrality have been abolished and replaced by arbitrarily defined unilateral regulatory objectives. i am firmly convinced that parliament must be guided by council decisions when setting targets, rather than proposing arbitrarily high, difficult-to-achieve targets. the member states should be better informed about what is realistic and feasible and what is not. the report has taken on a one-dimensional and anti-technological character because of the numerous amendments which have been tabled. i have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ the energy union is one of the main policy initiatives of the juncker commission. energy is among the most expensive in europe and security of supply and diversification are a continuing issue due to the multiple crises in the middle east and ukraine. it is therefore important for the eu to push ahead with the completion of the internal energy market and to develop an efficient energy supply system. on the question of the energy mix, i am in favour of a review of fracking. i think that the use of nuclear energy should also be left to the member states as an option. the report, which required tough negotiations, is so balanced that i could agree.
in writing. ‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy. the report was initially balanced and reasonable. it has been significantly weakened by many amendments. for example, technology openness and neutrality have been abolished and replaced by arbitrarily defined unilateral regulatory objectives. i am firmly convinced that parliament must be guided by council decisions when setting targets, rather than arbitrarily proposing high, difficult-to-achieve targets. the member states should be better informed about what is realistic and feasible and what is not. the report has taken on a one-dimensional and anti-technological character because of the numerous amendments which have been tabled. i have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ a european energy market is an important initiative that could potentially promote the competitiveness and energy security of the european economy. the report was initially balanced and reasonable. it has been significantly weakened by many amendments. for example, technology openness and neutrality have been abolished and replaced by arbitrarily defined unilateral regulatory objectives. i am firmly convinced that parliament must be guided by council decisions when setting targets, rather than arbitrarily proposing high, difficult-to-achieve targets. the member states should be better informed about what is realistic and feasible and what is not. the report has taken on a one-dimensional and anti-technological character because of the numerous amendments which have been tabled. i have therefore decided to vote against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target preparing the european electricity grid for 2020 because i think it is politically embarrassing to talk about an energy union when our grids at our borders have a capacity of just 2%. even the 10% target for 2020 is too low in this respect.
in writing. ‒ the european electricity grid is an important part of a european energy union. this is why we must support the integration of the member states into a single internal market. the internal energy market offers many advantages and its implementation must be pursued with consistency.
in writing. ‒ in october 2014 the european council requested that all member states achieve interconnection of at least 10% of their installed electricity production capacity by 2020, meaning that 10% of electricity produced could possibly be transported to neighbouring countries, thus improving energy security and boosting the internal market. the report agrees with the general idea but it states that the 10% target could seem arbitrary and is not applicable to all member states. it therefore proposes a more methodical approach based on the market dynamics and geographic considerations of the different countries. i agree with this position, as well as with the emphasis the report places on regional cooperation, and this is why i have voted in favour of it. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report on the implementation of the european progress microfinance facility, because i consider this eu initiative to be a successful project that has already made it easier for people who want to start or expand their own small business to access credit. progress promotes employment and social inclusion through entrepreneurship and self-employment in europe and is closely aligned with existing instruments to promote microfinance in the european union. at the same time, the report identifies and identifies the need for change to make progress more efficient.
in writing. ‒ the programme supports microenterprises in developing themselves and in training their staff in a targeted manner. this is not only an important step for the development of individual enterprises, but also of great social importance.
in writing. ‒ the european progress microfinance facility aims at increasing the availability of loans below eur 25,000 for implementing or developing small businesses by enabling microcredit providers in the eu to increase lending by issuing guarantees. the commission’s implementation report states that the number of signatories, most of which are from southern and eastern europe, has increased and describes the profiles of the recipients. parliament’s own-initiative report makes further recommendations on how the results can be improved, and since my group and i are satisfied with its contents, which included a number of valuable amendments, i have voted in favour of it. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ microfinance can be an effective tool for greater social inclusion. this is particularly true for people who have been marginalized by unemployment and are no longer able to obtain credit. however, microfinance is not yet having the desired effect in creating new jobs. we therefore call on the european commission to ensure that social indicators are included in the impact assessment. the question must be asked what kind of jobs are being created here. the reality is that 44% of the entrepreneurs supported had to give up after one year. we do not need to put a cosmetic on the unemployment rate, which is achieved by creating precarious, insecure jobs. this requires clarification of who is currently excluded from the support measures. microfinance must also take into account particularly disadvantaged groups such as the long-term unemployed, refugees and young people. the gender equality aspect must also be taken into account. existing instruments such as the european structural funds and the employment and social innovation programme need to be coordinated. no one needs nice brochures about european subsidies if the money does not get to where it is needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted today for the report on a new cfp: the framework for technical measures and multiannual plans. i am convinced that joint research is one of the pillars that europe will have to build on even more in the future. i think it is important to think about how to optimise the processes now.
in writing. ‒ further action is needed to ensure sustainable, ecosystem-based fisheries. technical measures in particular can lead to a significant reduction in the number of juvenile fish and thus strengthen the ecosystem in a sustainable way. at the same time, existing multiannual plans need to be implemented and further adapted.
in writing. ‒ this report calls for the legislative proposal of the commission (expected to be published in january or february 2016 and governing how, where and when fishermen can fish) to implement the objectives of the cfp through measures such as ensuring that accurate science influences rules and procedures and minimising the impact of fishing on the environment. it also calls, among other things, for technical measures to be calculated based on regionalisation and the needs of each area, setting up measures to avoid issues arising from landing obligations and for more involvement of fishermen in the decision process. though i agree with what this report is proposing and my vote will be positive, it covers superfluous aspects which i would like to see removed. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
the explanations of vote are closed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, it is a very interesting debate that we are having about a proposal by the commission that we do not even have yet on paper. still, some colleagues already seem to be agreeing with it, and that is very nice obviously for them and the commission. however, i would really like to see the proposals first and i have a couple of questions still. it is very nice, commissioner avramopoulos, that you say the complaint mechanism will be included. i am very happy about that, but other issues that have been presented leave me with a bit more doubt. especially, mr timmermans, you have been saying that the problem that we have is all the irregular entries into the european union, but we all know that those people who entered irregularly have been finding asylum here, and have been granted protection. those are people that we do not want to push away at the borders, i believe. so how exactly does this fit together with the proposal the commission is making? do you not think, commissioner avramopoulos, that a better answer to irregular entries would be to give refugees the possibility to enter regularly, legally and safely; then you could also have all your security checks at the external borders. unfortunately, i do not see a proposal on that; maybe i am missing something. neither have i heard any proposal on what you are proposing to do with member states who are refusing to receive refugees, which seems to be more of an issue right now. i am not sure how you are going to address that issue. the proposal that you are making today does not really seem to be addressing the issues i think are most at hand. so i do have a couple of questions. will you agree that those frontex mandatory actions will also happen at ports and airports when security fails? do you agree that it is difficult to force member states into good cooperation? and how will you solve the issue of jurisdiction? – because member states are still responsible for whatever happens in their territorial waters.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by congratulating you on this proposal, commissioners. i would therefore like to congratulate you, because it is a rather big step in the right direction. if we want to belong together as 28 member states, then it is not acceptable that if a problem arises in one country and we actually have freedom of movement within the european union, then on the one hand we cannot help one country sufficiently because there are not enough resources, because there is not enough coordination or because one member state simply does not want to help. then we must find solutions to these problems rather than jeopardize the whole schengen area. i think that this proposal provides for the first time a substantive answer to this question, one which is really worth giving serious thought to and building on for the future. i also think it is very positive that in the future we will have a preventive system for the early monitoring of migration movements, that the agency will also have a supervisory role by monitoring the extent to which we have particular vulnerabilities at our borders or within our member states in the field of security, then also that you can intervene directly if it is absolutely necessary that you have your own technical equipment, that you also take a role in coordinated orderly return, that you also have a joint coordinated approach here, even if we have rejected asylum seekers, and not a single member state to do it for the remaining 28. i think this whole program is worth seeing. we really should be dealing with this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i think we have some that are having a little trouble. if i take mr zeman, the former chairman of the social democrats in the czech republic, who has just been at a major congress with someone who advocates the burning of muslims, because - i must say this soberly - we have difficulties in a few states. i believe that we both disagree with such steps and want to jointly promote our european values, which we stand for. (applause from the centre)
i have to say, madam president, the control of our external borders is a european task, but most of the time the countries with external borders have been left to their own devices there has been a lack of solidarity. the refugee situation has revealed flaws, and we are witnessing chaos and national egoism. so now there is supposed to be a pool of european border guards. in a crisis situation, they should be activated, where appropriate, without the consent of the member state concerned. the legal basis needs to be clarified: what exactly are the duties and powers of the officials, what are the rules governing their actions and how is coordination with national authorities carried out. other issues also need to be critically examined: deployment of frontex in third countries, outsourcing of tasks to external service providers and access to relevant databases. in addition to the current lack of use of european information systems, it is worth recalling the tough debates we have had on law enforcement access to eurodac and now frontex. the strengthening of european border protection must not be a cover for european isolation. we must therefore strengthen the fundamental rights dimension of border protection. a complaints mechanism for human rights violations and a strong role for the agency in maritime rescue are the right elements. but more importantly, comprehensive registration of refugees and participation of all states in relocation must finally be put into practice, and this includes the exchange of best practices in the reception and integration of refugees. the member states must finally provide the means to improve the situation of refugees in third countries. without these steps, increased border controls will end up as a measure of closure and costly mass surveillance. we can't let that happen.
the commission has already done so. the schengen system is designed to facilitate the crossborder movement of people, goods and services within the single market. it also facilitates cross-border arms and drug trafficking, and supports burglary and terrorism. in the current migration crisis, schengen is on the verge of collapse. the eu's response is to renounce national sovereignty rights. it would be better to call on the participating states to enforce the schengen convention. countries like greece that fail to do so have the opportunity to ask the eu for help. we are happy to strengthen the new frontex mandate to this end. those who cannot do it on their own and do not need eu aid should be expelled from the schengen area. the schengen borders will then have to be moved further inland. at the same time, the german government must not be relieved of its responsibility. germany is the magnet that attracts the masses of refugees. if german policy does not change, the other countries will not be relieved of their burden either. the german entry, which is not supported by anyone in europe, should not lead to the question of sovereignty rights.
in writing. i support the commission's proposal. the security of the eu's external border is a pan-european task. i think this proposal is going in the right direction. frontex must become a real border guard agency. the security of the eu's external border must not depend on the willingness or ability of any single eu country to do so. we have a humanitarian obligation to provide shelter for people fleeing war and persecution. but that can only be done if we have real control over the eu's external border.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. of course, all that glitters is not gold, even under the paris agreement. personally, i'm also a little skeptical that we're talking about 1.5 degrees, whereas the indcs that we have are taking us to almost 3 degrees. i wish we could have put those two numbers together a little bit more to make it clearer. but we should not underestimate this historic opportunity which the truly historic paris agreement brings. if more than 180 countries, including emerging and developing countries, commit themselves to this, that is a value in itself. if we consider that some of the countries which have reached an agreement in paris are at the same time waging war against each other, then this is not at all self-evident. we should appreciate that and build on what we have achieved. i agree with the criticism some have made of air and sea transport. but i think that this too is a positive development. article 4 of the convention contains an obligation for all actors, not just for the states. this is a call to the international civil aviation organization and to the imo to finally live up to their responsibilities. after what was decided in paris, they cannot escape their responsibility. i would ask the commission and the council to take a very special interest in this and to put pressure on this house. i would like to thank and congratulate all those who contributed to the convention.
i have to say, madam president, i think it's historic that it's been decided, because a global problem, the biggest global problem, is finally going to be addressed and tackled globally. but now it's time to get down to business, i'll tell you that much. i would also like to thank the commission, mr arias cañete, the council presidency and, specifically, the french presidency of the conference, which negotiated very well and, with all diplomatic skill, made these negotiations a success. there has been a lot of talk about wormwood in the agreement. i cannot understand that two sectors are evading their responsibilities, arguing over and over again that they are international sectors and that is why there should be no legislation in europe. this is international air transport and international maritime transport. these two sectors must continue to play their part in the future, because what was agreed in paris, 1.5 to 2 degrees, can only be achieved if everyone is involved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think we have to take the opportunity now -- the financial industry has done it in advance, insurance companies have done it in advance, and they've made it very clear that we're not going to invest our funds, our capital, in fossil fuels anymore. we must turn this into clear signals for investment, also in europe, in renewable energy. we need storage technology. the whole energy union must be pushed further. these are the conclusions we should take with us from paris. you can convert it into jobs, and then it'll be a shoe. and then at the end of the day, we have to live up to our financial commitments. the european union's finance ministers must be held to account here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. in paris, politicians were saved first. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this instrument must meet three conditions. first, co2 must become more expensive, only then will we emit less of it. secondly, the emission allowances must be tradable, only then will co2 be used where it is really needed. and thirdly, if europe is not to continue to export growth, jobs and wealth as an expensive energy island, this system must be effective on a global basis. i therefore call on the commission to promote a binding and global emissions system immediately. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. they all, as we have seen, have been very much on their own shoulders, and many of the contributions have confirmed this. as for my ceterum censeo on the euro, my great role model is senator cato, who in every speech in rome - on whatever subject - always said: carthage must be destroyed. i believe that the euro only leads to strife and discord in europe and must therefore be abolished.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs reid, i would like to ask you: if you say that we do not know for sure whether climate change is actually happening because the time series are far too short, would not the fact that there is a possibility that climate change is happening mean that we must deal with it carefully and responsibly and still take measures to control greenhouse gas emissions in a sensible way?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to congratulate you, commissioner. i would also like to congratulate the french republic. you did a great job! i've been in this for years. of course there are weaknesses, of course we are not satisfied. but for those of you who were not in paris or at other conferences, please remember that it is not so easy to bring together 190 countries. i've walked all the concrete walls in the world. that is why we should be careful about making more demands, because two conferences have failed because we have called for binding legislation. and they have failed - not least those in copenhagen. so i think we're going to get a boost in european industry. industry and managers, but also consumers, have long understood that we are moving towards low-carbon policies. and i think there is only one thing that is required, namely our member states. we have to take care of it at home now. in my own state, north rhine-westphalia in germany, this is going to be particularly difficult, and yet we have to do it. industry will help us do this, because i am convinced that they have long understood that a low-carbon industry is a great new, modern value creation. about 50 billionaires around the world have decided to invest their money in this direction. my dear colleagues, you may know a lot about money, but they know even more about money. let them have it! we should support them. once again, mr arias cañete, thank you very much and stay strong! the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas:
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yes, the paris agreement is rightly called historic. i'm sure it's sending a signal for a new industrial age. if we are going to do everything that is in the agreement, which is to decarbonise the economy and society, then we need a lot of new technologies. we need a fundamental overhaul of our economic model, not only in electricity generation, but also in transport, in buildings, in agriculture, in virtually all fields, because otherwise we will achieve 80 to 95% decarbonisation and the removal of fossil fuels. i think there will be a technology competition between america, asia and europe. that's where i worry about whether we're in a good position. the battery technology is in china, the interesting cars are in america, and we're sitting on some shop windows. i think the 50 billionaires in the us i would also like to have to support innovation policy in the eu. and my last sentence, mr president, commissioner: is the eu prepared to really shoulder this overall package and enter this new industrial era ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker.)
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by anneliese dodds and luděk niedermayer, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the recommendations to the commission on the transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies in the union (2015/2010 ((inl)) (a8-0349/2015).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to make a preliminary remark: i would have very much liked to have had the luxembourg presidency of the council here tonight for what i consider to be a very important debate, precisely because minister gramegna has mentioned this as one of his priorities for the next six months. and if i look at the council page here and i don't see anyone, i find it embarrassing. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we must ensure that member states no longer stand idly by but allow new and better rules, rules which lead to genuinely fair tax competition, which make tax exemptions for multinational companies a thing of the past, which bring benefits to the eu's internal market and strengthen the competitiveness of the european business sector as a whole and thus globally, and which in the end also mean simplification rather than more tax bureaucracy. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of taxation of profits. we naturally respect the tax sovereignty of the member states, but there can be no more hiding behind it, especially when coordination is more achievable for all together. the oecd has initiated significant progress internationally in the fight against tax avoidance and profit shifting. we must therefore continue to follow this action plan closely and ensure that tax evasion and avoidance in europe and internationally no longer have a chance. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. that is not what we see and what we want, and i believe that pierre gramegna belongs to a different political group than mine. i would have liked the presidency of the council to have taken a very active part in this debate. that should have sent a clear signal tonight. but, as i said, the benches are empty.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. we all know that there is a great deal of tax avoidance in the european union, in its member states: by multinational companies, by a large number of multinational companies - not by all of them, but by many. this is hurting the taxpayers and it is hurting the competitors of these multinational corporations. this is why it is a challenge for the legislators in the european union to confront it. but it is important that the eu and its institutions act together with the legislators of the member states. it's important that they do this together. it is also necessary that they do this together, because the proposals we have made here, which are good and far-reaching proposals to a large extent, can only be implemented if we also have the agreement of the member states. we can't get the council to approve it otherwise. it is therefore important that we make it very clear that this is not about interfering in any way with the competence of the member states to regulate tax matters, that they maintain the division of competence - the member states are responsible for tax legislation and the commission is responsible for competition. if we do not respect that, we will not progress. there is a lot to be done in the field of competition, in the field of competition supervision. in luxembourg alone, we know that there are more than 5000 cases of possible state aid through tax measures. in 25 years the commission has only been able to deal with 65 such cases. we need more resources for the comp. we must strengthen the commission in a central authority.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the taxe report has clearly exposed the shortcomings we have in european tax competition. we have a single market with open borders free movement of capital and the combination of 28 over-complex tax systems creates loopholes that urgently need to be closed. i congratulate the two rapporteurs on presenting concrete demands to the commission. and we in the alde group, as liberals, are calling for very clear legislative proposals, for example to ensure that a common corporate tax base is introduced, so that competition is no longer based on the shifting of the tax base but on tax rates. and we also want a fully automatic exchange of information. we also want the oecd beps recommendations to be implemented in a binding manner. it is not possible for these to be merely recommendations, we need a common european legal basis. only then can we level the playing field. that's what this is about!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs. they did a good job, a great list, more than just a wish list. but the pressure we want to exert is missing here. i do not see mr moscovici, he has been represented. the luxembourgers - the main ones - have left. i think it is a provocation the way the council is treating us on this issue. they should have been sitting there for the approval of parliament, even if they had nothing to say. that's why we need to increase the pressure. that's the only thing that helps! i am in favour of public coverage of country-by-country reporting for a public! because only then will the pressure be so great that it will eventually be impossible to avoid. it is not the big companies that exploit the gaps that are the main culprits, but the states, especially the small states and the islands - such as gibraltar or the channel islands - from the big states: great britain. this has nothing to do with the competence of the member states, it is unfair tax competition to the detriment of workers, small and mediumsized enterprises and large countries. it is not because, as mr lucke said, we do not have enough people in the competition directorate. no, it is because of the reluctance of the member states. i have lived here for 15 years and have seen how luxembourg, austria and others have prevented the taxation of interest income at source. this has to end.
i thank you very much, mr langen. for the record, standing ovations from some of our colleagues.
which brings us to the catch-the-eye procedure. i have almost twice as many verbal messages as i can handle. i therefore ask for your understanding that i cannot take into account colleagues who have already spoken. catch the eye
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank you for this very interesting and comprehensive debate. i saw that there is an impressive level of consensus regarding the main recommendations of the report. we all seem to agree that what is needed today is a revived corporate tax policy tailored to the reality of the 21st century. tax systems need to become more transparent, definitely more coordinated and more convergent, and tax competition needs to be fair. the commission is willing and ready to work hard towards these goals and we count strongly, of course, on parliament’s support. let me now address, in this very strict timeframe of two minutes, a point which was raised by many of you. there were many calls for implementation of the recommendations of the oecd/g20 base erosion and profit shifting (beps) project. the new tax package which the commission will present at the beginning of next year will address many of your concerns. i would like to be able to give you more details but it would be premature to do so before all the elements of the package have been finalised and agreed upon by the commission. the commission is working hard and, as soon as we are able to, we will present the package to you, but be assured that we have carefully considered and taken into account the issues that you have raised. finally, i would like to congratulate you all again on this very timely, comprehensive and clear report with its inspiring ideas. there is no time for ‘business as usual’. all of us – parliament, commission and council – have to work rapidly and efficiently together for the benefit of our citizens and businesses, and of course our single market. my last remark: this is not the end; as the rapporteur has already said, this is only the beginning.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 16 december 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr bas belder, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on eu-china relations (2015/2003 (ini)) (a8-0350/2015).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the s&d group is in favour of expanding the eu's strategic partnership with china at all levels. china and the eu have different political systems. this results in different views and opinions on very different subjects. but that should not prevent us from working together in a spirit of trust and closeness for our mutual benefit as well as for the global good. the report also focuses on the strategic partnership at economic, political and cultural levels. that is the essence of this report from parliament. the mention of some recent events should not obscure the fact that we are focusing on this strategic partnership. china and the eu have achieved a great deal together in 40 years of diplomatic relations. i think there is still a lot more to be achieved and done in the next few years. we want to develop economic relations and support an investment agreement between the eu and china. the connectivity platform with china's participation in the juncker investment plan and our considerations to participate in the investment in the new silk road can be an important step forward. but we want a fair exchange. we are very much against any kind of dumping and of course against discriminatory barriers for european firms on the chinese market - even if we mention this in the report. china and the eu are global players. we must also work together more and more on global challenges for peace and development in the world. the keywords are: whether it's cyber security, financial stability, the fight against terrorism - there's a lot that can and must happen. we are therefore concerned about the tensions in the south china sea. the dialogue with asean countries, with neighbours and the use of the un convention on the law of the sea must be fully exploited. i mentioned different political systems. we are concerned about the curtailment of people's freedom in china, about discrimination, including human rights. the dialogue on human rights and the rule of law is so important here, as is the dialogue on tibet, on xinjiang, on relations in the taiwan strait and, of course, on the democratic development in hong kong. i believe that our report is a blueprint for the high commissioner's china strategy.
i would like to thank mr tannock. just a minute. one minute. mr tannock, mr tannock, this is charles tannock. possibly you hear more than you shout. (interrupted by charles tannock) possibly you hear ... i try to explain. mr tannock, i have admonished you three times with a gentle hammer. the interpreter's booth. i'm sure you're... (interrupted by charles tannock) we've known each other for a few days now. i'm sure by now you think i have a personal grudge against you. that's not the case. i actually think you're very sympathetic. but you're always talking too fast. and if you were to try to translate what you say into any of the languages you can, you would know what a difficult job the interpreters do. i've called you three times during the speech let me finish, or i'll call you to order i've called you three times through ... mr tannock, you do not have the floor. mr tannock, i call you to order. i'm calling you to order. i did not take you off the floor because you spoke too long, but because i warned you three times that the interpreters' booths - i can explain the system to you - are sending an emergency call here because you are too fast. that is why i have withdrawn your speech, not because you have spoken too long. i know that i did not pay enough attention to the two speakers before, because i did some research here and they therefore spoke for longer than i normally do. but i've taken you off the floor because you're talking too fast.
mr tannock, you cannot speak as long as you want, nor as fast as you want. because if the interpreters' booths stop interpreting here, then any colleague can complain. and then the meeting ends anyway. that's why not everyone here can talk as fast as they want, let alone as long as they want. (interrupted by charles tannock) even if you repeat it and even if you shout, colleague, it will not get better. i'm giving you a second call to order! if you let it come to a third, i'll have you removed from the courtroom. (interrupted by charles tannock) mr tannock, you are dismissed. i'm ordering you to leave the room. there's been enough noise. the rules of procedure.
i have explained to him three times now - and if you had listened, you would have known it too - that i did not take him off the floor because he had exceeded the speaking time, but because he had exceeded the speaking speed. we have here -- i can show you and explain this -- a button, and it says, "slow down". and if several interpreters are printing at the same time and can no longer provide a quality translation, then a lamp is lit here, and i am obliged to warn my colleagues. i did this three times with this sound (the president hits the counter with the hammer). he didn't react. that's why i took his word for it, because he spoke too fast.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking mr belder, the rapporteur, for his openness to cooperation and his willingness to compromise. mr belder, i think you will be the record holder for a long time in this parliament's china reports. i would also like to thank mr schmit for some very clear words. this report comes in the 40th year of eu-china relations. in these 40 years, we have seen many changes. but one rule still applies today, as it did 40 years ago: exchange can only be fruitful if there is fair reciprocity. this means that we must also be very clear that china, as a global power, is becoming a matter of concern to us not only in its relations with the eu directly, but also indirectly - how it interferes in global affairs. both sides - china and the eu - are still in transition. i therefore want to express my support for what you have said, mr belder. we need an annual report in this parliament from the high representative on the development of relations between china and the eu. it's evolving so fast that we need this instrument -- just like the congress in washington -- to stay abreast of the debate. the role of a proud parliament is to say certain things even if the other side does not like them. so i cite, for example, our criticism of china's law against foreign ngos, or our expectation that china will abide by the arbitration award that will probably be made by the mid-year arbitration tribunal under the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos). in conclusion, we need a common european policy on china. that's the only way we can have an impact with what we do.
blue-card question. – mr carver, since you mentioned the election of the chief executive, can you please remind us when, during the time that hong kong was a british colony, did you allow hong kong citizens to elect the chief executive?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a question for the council representative. we voted on two resolutions in the european parliament on 9 october 2013. in the first resolution we welcomed the opening of negotiations on an investment agreement with china. in the second resolution we called on the european commission and the council to negotiate with taiwan in parallel. when will you in the council take the necessary steps to ensure that these negotiations run in parallel? we certainly agree on the one-china policy. but just because we agree on this, it would be sensible not to negotiate with one part alone and leave the other part alone. one china policy should mean that we treat china as a whole, as appropriate, and not forget a part.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the report on eu-china relations adopted the chapter on tibet by a large majority. we are witnessing an organized repression of the tibetan people. what the administration calls equal treatment is a human rights violation. activists are arrested, their families are persecuted. the monk tenzin gelek died in captivity under unexplained circumstances. we demand the unrestricted practice of buddhism. the so-called anti-terrorism law is only meant to legitimize sanctions. the result and expression of despair is the increasing number of self-immolations by monks and nuns over the last three years, more than 140. we have mentioned that pollution is increasing dramatically on the tibetan plateau. the world's third largest glacial landscape, the source of six of asia's largest rivers, is threatened with destruction. finally, it is time for the negotiations between the representatives of the dalai lama and the chinese authorities to be resumed!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the cop 21 in paris was a great international success! we need this international momentum, this momentum, if the summit in istanbul is to be a success. and i believe that what we are proposing on the part of europe can make a good contribution to reaching a common outcome. the need and urgency are greater than ever. i want to go over the figures again, because then other things take a back seat. other things are secondary. with 100 million people directly dependent on life-saving humanitarian aid, the one million syrian refugees we have seems relatively small. of the 100 million, a third are children and adolescents! they cannot protect their lives on their own, they need food, medicine and a roof over their heads. this is also true of the 60 million displaced people - the highest number since the second world war. the numbers are clear enough. the need has increased: in three years, from 2012 to 2015, it went from $10 billion to $20 billion. we are doomed to success in istanbul. enrique, thank you for the good report, it is a good basis for the negotiations in istanbul.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. a few days ago, the paris climate conference came to an end. there was great rejoicing when the president of the summit, laurent fabius, announced that the treaty had been adopted. the paris summit is bringing momentum to an important process. we can achieve the same effect by urging europeans to attend a un summit on humanitarian aid. as the world's largest donor, we have every reason to do so: environmental disasters, wars, refugees. the challenges are great. we can only succeed together in europe, and we can only succeed together in the world. our world needs a new cultura carittias, a culture of charity. no country can escape this. that is why we need a global conference, and that is why we need concrete ideas. i have just heard the call for a global tax on poverty in the acp delegation. i have a majority in favour of my idea of establishing eu emergency centres worldwide to respond more quickly to humanitarian disasters. i'm sure there are many of these ideas. let's gather them and take them to the... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. listen, announcing it is not enough. the problems in europe are pressing. and i'm disappointed, yes, i'm angry that we can't finally discuss today concrete measures to improve the situation of mobile workers. the commission president, mr juncker, recently said that he wanted to make the fight against social dumping a priority: the mobility package should be one of the cornerstones of this, and the european social pillar you announced should be a second. i am also reminded of all the promises made: a social triple a for europe, the principle of equal pay for equal work in the same place, equal treatment for all workers in europe, fair competition. i am asking myself: what is this to be done with? this is a pure ad commission! the problems are on the table. for years, it has been clear where the loopholes are and how they can be closed. they must really help the people who are suffering from the loopholes of the posting of workers directive, and also the honest companies whose competitiveness is suffering from the same. the commissioner, the time is now, and further delay will not do anything for social europe. the people are waiting for an answer!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the initiative on the labour mobility package. we must continue to strengthen the internal market for workers in europe, a european labour market, with unlimited opportunities for the young generation, including social security. we need rules that are applicable and not ideologically overloaded. it is a question of respect for subsidiarity and sovereignty. let us accept national and regional responsibilities! and to those who are fundamentally against schengen, i say: think of the workers! obligatory border controls lengthen working hours, consume time and threaten the economic areas that have been built up over many years. we must also talk about this in the context of worker mobility.
madam president, mobility has in fact enriched all of our lives. i have worked, studied and lived in belgium, germany, the uk and bosnia. i have taken advantage of the great freedom to choose where i want to work and what i want to do – an internship in barcelona, a phd in stockholm or working for a company in tallinn. to me, this freedom has always been a choice, and i have always been protected from discrimination and exploitation by european union law. this is true for many mobile europeans, but still not for all. we still see that the portability of social rights, non-discrimination and social security are not always safeguarded. we have seen – especially lately, due to the crisis – that many europeans are not freely moving to other eu member states, but are forced to do so – accepting any working conditions, not getting the same pay, or even losing access to basic social rights. with this labour mobility package, we need to tackle these problems. to do this, we need to put the rights of european citizens at the core of this debate instead of only looking at economic gains, which labour mobility certainly entails. we in this parliament need to be the voice of the citizens and their social rights, security and protection. make a proposal that guarantees the european principles of equality, non—discrimination and social justice. if this commission really wants the eu to get a triple a for social standards, this is the time to prove it. and this will be crucial for the trust of the european citizens in the european project.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission's proposal to improve accessibility of products and services is an important and indeed long overdue step towards improving the daily lives of the approximately 80 million people with disabilities in europe. it is important that in a common internal market there are common standards and that there is also common handling. this simplifies the lives of those affected and saves costs, and that is also what we all care about here. the commission's drive to ensure that the principle of accessibility, as laid down in the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, is also uniformly applied in the eu is as important as the active integration of the disabled into the labour market. the digital single market can also offer a great opportunity in this respect, if it also means that people who otherwise have difficulty in accessing it can be much better integrated into the labour market in the future.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the preparation of the european council meeting of 17 and 18 december 2015 (2015/2913 ((rsp)).
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda for the december european council meeting will be very full. the european council will address issues fundamental to europe such as migration, the fight against terrorism, economic and monetary union, the internal market, energy union and climate policy, as well as the uk referendum. the european council not only aims to tackle the current crises, but also to give general political orientations for the future. the council has worked intensively on all these issues, a great deal has been achieved in recent months, and let me now give details of the various issues. the first question concerns migration. the first priority for all of us is to implement what we have decided. all the institutions are working hard to implement the conclusions of the european council, but the scale of the crisis reminds us every day that this is no longer enough. managing its immediate effects is essential, but establishing rules and enforcing them is equally essential. this will include examining the situation on the ground and addressing current shortcomings, in particular with regard to hotspots, relocations and returns. first of all, we must strengthen the protection of our external borders in the schengen area in order to stem the flow of irregular migrants. frontex must be strengthened and countries that ask for it - greece is now one example - must be able to rely on effective assistance. the preservation of the schengen area, which must be our absolute objective, requires that we improve the management of our external borders. i believe that the commission has made some important proposals in this respect. continued cooperation with countries of origin and transit is also crucial for operational purposes, but also to tackle the root causes of migration. in this context, the european council also intends to adopt conclusions on syria, expressing its firm support for all efforts towards a political process, but also expressing a willingness to fight against all terrorist forces. the second question relates specifically to the fight against terrorism. after the paris attacks, a number of measures were adopted and now need to be implemented quickly. one of the most important issues is cooperation and the exchange of information. it is not a question of creating an agency like the cia, or i do not know what other european agency, but of deepening and systematising cooperation between the relevant services. the agreement on the european pnr will also play a decisive role in the fight against terrorism, and i would like to thank mr kirkhope and all those who have worked towards an agreement on this difficult issue. in this area too, cooperation with third countries is of course absolutely necessary. the third question concerns economic and monetary union. the report of the five presidents to complete it was presented last june. since then, work has progressed well in the various council configurations. the commission put forward follow-up proposals on 21 october last, and you debated them yesterday in plenary. we all agree that reform of the euro area remains a necessity. the european council is called upon to give direction to the further work, a number of issues - we regret to admit - remain controversial and therefore need to be clarified quickly. the president of the european council also wants a thorough discussion on the basis of which the institutions can take the work forward. the fourth item on the council's agenda concerns the internal market, which is the very foundation of european integration. the commission has recently submitted a number of communications and reports which will form the basis of the european council's discussions. the aim is to strengthen and deepen the internal market in several areas where shortcomings still exist. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the digital single market, the digital single market and the capital markets union, and to include the digital single market in the new strategy. we all welcomed the success of cop 21 on the energy union and climate change. there was a debate yesterday on this too. the european council will of course take note of this and will instruct the council and the commission to assess the results, in particular in the light of the 2030 framework for climate and energy action. now is the time for action and here too europe must lead the way and set an example. the european council will also return to the question of the energy union for a thorough discussion in march. finally, the question of the referendum in the united kingdom. after extensive consultations, the president of the european council set out his intentions in a letter to his colleagues on 7 december. the december european council should not take a decision on the united kingdom's requests; the commission will be able to make a statement on the matter in the course of the meeting. the form and content of a possible agreement will be worked out at a later stage. in addition, president tusk, in his letter to the members of the european council, informed the heads of state and government that he had asked the presidency to put the issue of sanctions policy against russia on the agenda of coreper. in conclusion, i would like to express once again our gratitude for the responsibility and commitment of the european parliament on the many issues and challenges of our time, and in particular on the issue of migration.
president of the commission.– mr president, the main issues of discussion for tomorrow’s european council will be the management of the refugee crisis, the implementation of our security agenda and the deepening of the economic and monetary union. i said in the state of the union speech on 9 september, and i want to repeat it, that this is no time for business as usual. no time for half-measures, no time for hesitation. i announced plans for a european border and coast guard, and here we are. the commission has now agreed those plans, and i call on parliament and the council to treat them as a matter of urgency. we have no time to lose when it comes to preserving the schengen area of free movement. (applause) for this, effective management of our external borders must be a priority. the commission is not the government of the european union – this seems to be news to you, mr farage! he would like the commission to be the government of europe! –(laughter) ...but when the situation requires so, when there are threats to our ways of living together, we have to take responsibility and prepare a collective response. we have done this for the banking system by transferring preventive and remedial mechanisms to the european level – because the crisis has shown that national authorities were left alone to deal with transnational problems. the proposal we put forward yesterday, under the leadership of my good friend frans timmermans and commissioner avramopoulos, for a european border and coast guard, follows the same logic. it will bring the missing link to strengthen our external borders, so that people can continue to live and move freely within our union. we europeans no longer have many borders: we have one, and we have a shared responsibility to protect it. the european border and coast guard is not the answer to a new need. the european border and coast guard is there to repair a weakness in our schengen system. we are completing what should have been done from the start. member states will continue to keep their competence and sovereignty on their borders. they will continue to manage the external border day to day. the european border and coast guard will assess migratory flows across the whole of the union, identify our weak spots, and require member states to take action when needed. member states will be able to request joint operations and rapid border interventions. but where urgent problems persist and no action is taken, the commission will assume its responsibility for the system as a whole and take – together with the member states – appropriate decisions for the european border and coast guard to intervene. if there is a serious problem at our external border, we cannot stand aside and do nothing. we have to act. the commission proposes to establish a permanent staff of 1 000 and a reserve pool of at least 1 500 experts who can be deployed within 72 hours. a new european return office within the new agency will accelerate the return of irregular migrants by deploying teams of specialists across the union. a new standard travel document for return will ensure the wider acceptance of returnees by third countries. all of you know my views on schengen, but to avoid any doubt, let me be absolutely clear: under my leadership we will do everything possible to protect what we have built, and to make it better and stronger. (applause)we want to defend everything that schengen represents, and as we prepare for a new year, our determination is stronger than ever. so let me tell you: schengen is here to stay. this is why the commission proposes to strengthen the schengen border code so that every person entering the schengen area – whether they are an eu national or a third country national – will undergo a security check against national and european databases. and checks on all individuals will now be mandatory when exiting the european union as well. these are the costs of a riskier world, and we cannot avoid them. tomorrow, i will call on the european council to respond positively and urgently to all of these proposals. here, i want to thank this house for its support over the course of this year. parliament worked closely with the commission when it mattered most. you responded quickly and diligently to all of our proposals, and i count on your support as we continue our work together. the refugee crisis does not begin at europe’s borders. last month, we opened a new chapter in our relations with turkey, a country that already hosts 2.2 million refugees – more than any other country in the world. the situation demands that we work together. yesterday, the commission adopted a recommendation for a voluntary humanitarian admission scheme for refugees from syria who are currently in turkey. if our neighbour is facing a humanitarian emergency, then we have a duty to help. all 28 member states have worked on this proposal, but it remains voluntary. those member states that want to help can do so. i hope that all 28 are ready to help. mr president, when i came to you in september, europe was not in good shape. our governments were very busy blaming each other, or pointing the finger at brussels. the situation required urgent action. on 29 september, the commission adopted a communication outlining the immediate operational, budgetary and legal measures under the european agenda on migration. we concluded that the implementation of european union law with regard to building a common european asylum system had been proceeding too slowly in the member states. as a result, on 15 october we presented a communication setting out the next steps for the next six months. in particular, the commission called on greece and italy to roll-out the remaining hotspots, to operationalise those existing, to improve the registration capacity within the eurodac fingerprinting system and to organise the swift transfer of migrants from hotspot areas to second-line reception facilities. the situation in greece and in italy has improved, but there still remain things to be done. this is why i convened the leaders of the western balkans, to bring everyone round the table and to start a conversation. as a result, our officials now talk on a daily basis and coordinate actions across the whole of the region. i know that it will take some time before we fully control every aspect of the situation, but we are moving in the right direction. the european union’s humanitarian assistance to the western balkans now stands at eur 22 million, helping to give comfort and restore dignity to thousands of refugees along that route. but make no mistake. progress is still too slow, and our member states need to do more, and they need to do it quickly. while they accelerate relocations and returns, they must also agree on the crisis relocation mechanism so that europe can react more quickly in the future. they need to agree on the safe countries of origin, so that we can increase the efficiency of the asylum system and speed up the return of irregular migrants. they need to match the funding that the european union has mobilised for the syria trust fund. and they need to deliver everything agreed at the valletta summit, where we launched a new partnership with our african neighbours. we need to honour all our commitments, and we need to do it now. this is the message i will take once again to the european council tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. monsieur le président, mesdames, messieurs, les européens veulent pouvoir continuer à vivre en sécurité dans un espace où la libre circulation contribue à leur façon de vivre, d'étudier et de travailler. mais les images qui ont marqué cette année 2015 et resteront gravées dans leur mémoire, celles des récents événements à paris, rappellent que le pire est toujours possible. chaque jour à travers l'europe, 24 heures sur 24, des hommes et des femmes, qu'ils soient policiers, gendarmes, magistrats ou juges, sont entièrement dévoués à assurer la sécurité de nos citoyens. nous avons l'obligation de faciliter leur travail en leur donnant les outils nécessaires pour qu'ils puissent mieux coordonner leurs actions dans ce qui est, pour eux, un combat de tous les jours. bien sûr, la sauvegarde de la sécurité est une prérogative nationale, mais il est évident qu'une meilleure coordination au niveau européen s'impose, y compris pour ce qui est de la collaboration entre les services secrets. le terrorisme ne connaît aucune frontière et, donc, notre réponse doit être globale. quoi qu'en disent certains, qui se livrent à de dangereux amalgames, les terroristes voyageant vers l'europe préfèrent le confort des avions à la précarité d'embarcations de fortune. je me réjouis donc que nous soyons enfin parvenus à un accord sur le registre européen des passagers, et je remercie tous les acteurs du parlement européen qui ont travaillé pour parvenir à ce résultat. selon l'agence europol, quelque 5 000 européens seraient partis combattre dans des pays comme la syrie ou l'iraq. certains d'entre eux sont déjà rentrés. parmi eux, quelques-uns se sont attaqués avec une violence inouïe aux sociétés qui les ont vus naître et qui les ont vus grandir. face à ce phénomène, nous devons adapter et intensifier l'arsenal juridique de l'union européenne en matière de prévention et de répression des actes terroristes, y compris pour ce qui touche au financement des activités terroristes. c'est là tout l'objet de la nouvelle directive présentée par la commission sur la lutte contre le terrorisme, que j'espère voir adoptée rapidement. dans tous les cas, nous ne devons jamais oublier que liberté et sécurité ne sont pas antinomiques. préserver et défendre cette compatibilité entre liberté et sécurité, c'est aussi ce qui fait notre façon de vivre ensemble. c'est une question d'identité, c'est une question de valeurs. puisque, monsieur le président, le conseil européen sera l'occasion de discuter de l'union économique et monétaire et du marché intérieur, c'est l'occasion de rappeler que la liberté va aussi de pair avec la prospérité. l'innovation, la croissance, l'emploi, la compétitivité n'aiment pas les frontières. lorsque nous avons un problème dans un de nos pays, nous devons essayer d'apporter une réponse globale au problème de ce pays. lorsque nous avons le même problème dans plusieurs pays, nous avons l'obligation d'agir – je le dis notamment en relation avec la situation grave dans laquelle se trouve la sidérurgie européenne ces jours-ci. ce n'est pas en se repliant sur soi que l'europe pourra répondre aux attentes des européens, qui veulent pouvoir créer une entreprise, trouver les financements y afférents, avoir à leur disposition des marchés ouverts, des systèmes de communication et de transport performants, des approvisionnements énergétiques sûrs et des facteurs énergétiques bon marché. c'est pourquoi, lorsque nous avons présenté notre programme de travail, nous avons insisté sur la nécessité de parfaire notre marché intérieur là où il est imparfait et de le parachever là où il est incomplet – faire l'union du numérique, l'union des marchés de capitaux, l'union de l'énergie. je me réjouis de l'accord qui a été trouvé récemment à paris, dit "accord climatique", qui nous permettra de progresser dans ces objectifs fixés par l'union de l'énergie, tout en renforçant notre contribution financière pour l'action climatique dans les pays en voie de développement. ein abschießendes wort zur europäischen union und zu ihrer absehbaren zukunft. in europa war nie etwas einfach, und in europa wird es nie einfach sein, dinge und menschen, menschen und dinge zusammenzubringen. aber immer wieder, wenn es probleme gab, sind männer und frauen aufgestanden, weil sie nicht geschichte erdulden wollten, sondern geschichte gestalten wollten. (beifall)so war es immer, und so wird es bleiben. das unmögliche erscheint so lange unmöglich, bis es gemacht ist. (beifall)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the year 2015 was marked by delivering at european level. i would therefore like to express my gratitude to the commission for this year of delivering, proposing and presenting ideas for the future of europe. and we in the european parliament have tried to give legislative backing to this, to give legislative backing. the last proposal from yesterday, mr president, fits in perfectly. the idea of improving the protection of external borders in order to keep europe open at home is exactly the same logic that europe delivers. i would like to signal support for my group. i am glad to hear that the european parliament is now discussing whether national sovereignty should be preserved or not. but the question of securing the european border, not the spanish border, in greece, hungary, poland and spain is obvious. that is why we want to strengthen frontex. and if you ask the citizens today, they will say, i don't really care whether my nation-state rules or someone else does. i want the law to be applied at the outer border of europe. that is what the people of europe want, and that is where we should support the commission. (applause from the centre) i would like to express on behalf of my group that we will not agree to legislation on the frontex mandate unless the command question is settled. the central question is: if a member state does not implement anything at the external border, then someone else must be able to secure the borders accordingly, and that is frontex. i am not going to go into detail. i would like to thank mr schmit, the president of the council, for the introduction to tomorrow's council, because he described that tomorrow you will not be presenting new ideas, new designs for the future, but that this is a review council, where you take stock, where you take stock of what has been achieved, because this is very necessary. i do not want to hear new ideas, but simply to put into practice the points that have been agreed. i read, for example, that the italian and british governments are now putting together some very brilliant ideas for the lisbon issues, for ever closer union, for all these formulations. i must say that we can talk about all this, but the most important thing would be for the italian and british governments to pay their commitments on the african fund, for the money to be finally made available, or for the relocation mechanism, namely the promised almost 40 000 refugees from italy who will be redistributed, to be finally implemented! so we do not need new ideas, but we do need the implementation of decisions! (applause from the centre) thirdly, i would like to make a very fundamental remark today, also at the end of 2015, because we often discuss in the institutions among ourselves as professionals and have too little regard for the citizens. we all know that citizens have concerns when it comes to europe, when it comes to the further development of europe. and so i want to make an attempt today to make an appeal, not to talk about europe in crisis, not to talk about the worries that europe could fail tomorrow, as we often read in the newspapers, but i just want to list some facts about what has been achieved in 2015. ladies and gentlemen, we had charlie hebdo in january 2015. today, in these weeks, we have adopted the necessary legislative responses in the fight against terrorism pnr, europol mandate. we have had thousands of deaths in the mediterranean this spring and in recent years, dear friends, very honored ladies and gentlemen, who have died in the attempt to escape. since the spring of this year, almost all european naval forces have been deployed to the mediterranean to rescue refugees, we have saved thousands of lives, and thanks to the efforts of federica mogherini, we now even have a strong mandate to take action against the smugglers there. in the summer we had a genuine historical question on the table. and it was thanks to jean-claude juncker that greece was able to stay in the euro area and give its people a stable perspective. and although even the communists in greece now have to carry out the necessary pension reforms, we have succeeded in making progress there, thank god. we've had the ukraine issue on the table all year. ladies and gentlemen, it is a great success that the european union is united in extending the sanctions, that we are united in our response to the russian nationalism which we are unfortunately witnessing. we had the climate summit in paris a few days ago. ladies and gentlemen, without the courageous action of our continent, including this european parliament, on climate change, that we want to fight against climate change, paris would have been unthinkable. we europeans have been the shining example to the world in the fight against climate change. two other points: data protection: if i imagine that we are now regulating data protection, where we are trying to limit these tools - google and facebook - a little bit and also to set european standards - we are doing something for the citizens. and finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have 2% economic growth in the euro area, growth is coming back. something is being achieved in europe. and i would like, ladies and gentlemen, that when we talk about europe, we do not just go from one crisis summit to another, but that we tell our citizens: we can achieve a great deal if we act together. i wish for that openness. we have achieved a lot, including in 2015, together in europe. and that should be the message to the british: member states are important, national sovereignty is important, our member states should and must be strong. but together we are stronger! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the first task in matters of the schengen area is to preserve schengen in the first place, because of the problems we have in the schengen area, because, unfortunately, internal border controls are being increased again. the proposals are going in the right direction. my group wants romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area. the progress made in both countries in recent years is considerable. i believe that both countries have a good chance of becoming members of the schengen area in the next few months, in the next few years.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mr juncker, you were right when you said earlier that europe will never be easy, it never has been and it will never be. but i am convinced that if member states are now asked - in a flash - to be prepared to renounce their sovereign rights in order to set up a european external border authority and then to be able to act against their will, and at the same time to threaten that those who do not agree with this should not be entitled to the schengen area, then i believe that this is not constructive and that this does not help to build trust between member states. the experience of recent years shows that we often speak with two tongues, that on the one hand we make statements, make demands, make promises, put pressure on, that we do not shy away from blackmailing member states, and in the end we even undermine their own constitution, in order to finally comply with the demands of the eu institutions. this is the point where i ask myself: what do we do now? where are we at? are we really now on the way to stabilizing the european union and the social, political, overall situation? or are we now again going in a direction that is leading us to encounter more and more contradictions in the human race? i think that the main thing is to push forward the common path. i would ask you to do the same. i would also like to expressly ask the council to ensure that the commitments made at previous summits are respected during the council. it is about the hotspots, it is about providing enough staff to operate them at all. i am thinking here of greece. but it also concerns the promises that people coming to greece or to the other countries will be distributed. if only 34 people have been brought to luxembourg so far, what does that have to do with honesty? we cannot say on the one hand that greece has to comply with the rules, that it has to enforce the measures, but on the other hand that we leave greece alone in solving the great refugee problem. as far as honesty is concerned, i am now also wondering about what i have heard about the question of the accession process for turkey, namely keeping it open. i was horrified to see who was clapping all the time. representatives of parties that are members of the federal government applauded the fact that we are in favour of telling the truth. we have no future. why do we sit down with you and agree on things that are supposed to solve the refugee problem, ignoring what is happening in turkey? we do not take a position on the question of the treatment of journalists in relation to the crimes committed in the kurdish regions. we accept that the turkish authorities are asking syrian refugees to choose between going to detention centers or going back to syria. what is this place? why can 't we just stand here and explain: yeah, are we demanding the next chapter be opened or are we proposing it be opened? but let us be honest: they will never become members of the european union. i'm really wondering where we are here. are we playing fair, or are we really just trying to advance our own interests here, the big one? we are not interested in what happens to our values, our aspirations, our ideas, our vision of a just europe, a just european union. thank you, such a union, i do not want! (applause from the centre) (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have a significant problem, i said, with the way we're dealing with state sovereignty here. but i'm not personally obligated to you.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. if the british people share your views on the european union and on the weakness of mr cameron, why have they not sent ukip to the house of commons with more than one seat?
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the signal that will come from the summit tomorrow and the day after tomorrow will determine how we start the new year. is the european union perceived as a team divided, with each player playing his game and everyone losing in the end, or as a team with common goals, which knows what is worth fighting for together? the commission, mr president, is fighting for a common europe, as are the majority of us in the european parliament and the president of the council. i would like to begin by thanking the commission, which has always stressed the commonalities and is fighting for a strong europe, and which has always put forward constructive proposals to tackle the enormous challenges we face - not least yesterday, with regard to european border and coastal protection. mr juncker, you have addressed schengen. schengen is one of our greatest achievements: free movement, travel within the schengen area without controls. schengen requires the securing of the external border. it requires that those entering the schengen area are checked and registered. it has been right to set up hotspots at the external borders, to put pressure on the member states to accept and cooperate in securing the external borders. it is also right to establish a common border and coastal protection as was proposed yesterday. mr president-in-office, you are needed. i ask you with all my heart: apply pressure, use diplomacy to persuade the member states to send a signal for a united europe tomorrow. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not a member of the european parliament. this question does not arise at present and will only arise if liechtenstein so wishes. i think it's just important for us to look forward. we had a tough year in 2015. we have tried to the best of our knowledge and belief - also here in the european parliament - to get the crises under control. i think we should look ahead and see how we can do what the people of europe expect of us: that we here continue to promote our common europe, secure our external borders and also treat the needy people who arrive with us with human dignity.
mr president, first vice-president timmermans said yesterday that the problem we have in europe is the many irregular entries, and that these need to be stopped. but those people who are coming irregularly are refugees, and refugees are in need of protection. refugees are not the problem we have in europe. the problem we have is the distribution of refugees and the lack of solidarity. we cannot turn refugees away if we are to follow our own laws and our own morals. but this is exactly what the commission is not proposing to do with the new frontex mandate, because frontex, in coordination and cooperation with third countries, will make sure that those people in need of protection will never make it to european shores. this is already happening. but in future the closing of borders will even be mandatory for member states. member states who do not close their borders completely will be punished. on the other hand, we see a resettlement proposal. that is very nice, but resettlement will be voluntary. why is it that europe can always agree to make closing borders mandatory but, when it is about welcoming refugees, it is up to every member state to decide if they want to? this commission proposal is simply a new troika, this time for borders. this is not the face of europe that i want to see. ***
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the plenary is relatively empty, which is a good indication of the level of expectations of the council. i would like to thank mr schmit and mr asselborn very much. i can't recall a presidency having to work so hard to present so few satisfactory results and so little common ground here, and it wasn't your efforts. it was not a good year for the eu. while the commission and parliament are looking for european solutions and have found some, the council presents itself as the addition of 28 member states. it adds two things: some of these eu saboteurs return home to lash out at brussels. this can't be the answer. the little that is decided is implemented badly, slowly or not at all. who paid into the funds? how many of the 160,000 refugees are spread out? where are the 400 police officers who are supposed to help slovenia? where are the hotspots in greece? it is not enough for a commissioner to fly to greece, to lesbos, to say that this camp is now called hotspot, but there is a bit more to it. i hope that will happen very soon. the common will is lacking, and there is a lack of efficient management. instead, we are preparing for the negotiations with prime minister cameron. to win elections, he promised a referendum, and now we have to help him get off the horse. i warn you, it could set an example for other countries. i ask you to be very careful about this matter. we want britain to stay in the eu because we would be poorer without britain. but everything has its limits: we must not shake off freedom of movement, nor are we social democrats prepared to accept the old ideology that the market rules everything under the pretext of competitiveness. i hope you will come to a quick decision - not because mr cameron has a party conference, but because i am bored of hearing mr farage speak every time, not to us at all, but to the bbc, and then they are all out. maybe the camera can show that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the british prime minister has put forward his demands for reform of the european union. the liberal group chairman, who is again conspicuous by his absence, has rightly said that the other countries should also come and put forward proposals for reform. there is indeed a need for reform. the european central bank, for example, has to be brought back to the task for which it is responsible: monetary policy. the european central bank is not responsible for acting as a creditor to indebted states every month. this is also part of the reform agenda of the european union. there is the european stabilization mechanism, which is a permanent breach of the non-assistance clause. it is also part of the necessary reforms that we abolish this stabilization mechanism, because it is contrary to the treaty. we believe that powerful countries like germany should be punished in europe for their current account surpluses. such a view is anti-competitive and anti-performance. that needs to be reformed. we cannot carry out such measures. finally, we must also give every country in europe the right to decide freely whether it wants to join the euro or leave it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the summit will be on thursday evening, as we have heard several times this morning, to deal with the forthcoming british referendum. we have a difficult task ahead of us: on the one hand, to support the british government, to campaign successfully in the referendum for remaining in our european union, and on the other hand, not to question the achievements of successful european integration. i think the december council is just a stopover. in the end, the legal and political details and the precise form of the agreement will be decisive. here all the parties involved can and should be prepared to make a constructive contribution. the european people's party will do so in any case. i think it would be good if we could find a reasonable compromise in february so that we can have clarity soon. say yes to bremain. say no to brexit
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the protection of the eu's external borders is a common european task. the last few weeks and months have shown that without common action, chaos and national egoism prevail. it is therefore essential to improve border management across the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are not blocked. refugees must continue to be able to apply for asylum in the eu and people fleeing war must be granted protection in accordance with international law. the dublin system must be revised and a permanent and compulsory distribution key for refugees must be established on the basis of genuine solidarity. but what we need above all is determination and action rather than words. the loss of confidence in europe is now reaching a threatening level because governments simply do not implement decisions and do not act together. the european community must not become a community of distrust. i therefore call on the governments to finally take up their responsibilities and prove that europe stands for freedom, humanity, tolerance and solidarity.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i'd like you to take a seat. maybe we can put a little video in first. (a short video is playing.) (applause from the centre) i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it is a great honour for me to represent our sakharov prize winner this year, raif badawi, who cannot be with us today because he has expressed his opinion freely and because he has called for freedom of thought, because he has been sentenced to 10 years in prison and 1,000 lashes for this, and because we have received the tragic news that he has now been placed in solitary confinement in addition to that and therefore cannot receive the sakharov prize in person today. it is therefore an honour and a pleasure for me to welcome his brave and great wife, mrs ensaf haidar, in your place in the european parliament today. welcome to the club. (applause from the centre) among the many guests who are honouring us today with the presentation of the sakharov prize for 2015, many representatives of the diplomatic corps, we have two guests to whom i extend a warm welcome. i have arranged with mrs haidar that i will also welcome olga schorina of the boris nemtsov foundation and maría alejandra aristigueta, the representative of the venezuelan opposition, on her behalf. these two groups were in competition. welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to this award ceremony. (applause from the centre) thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for joining us. through you, mrs. haidar, we wish to honor your husband's courageous struggle. dear mrs. haidar, i would like to personally, your family, your children, all your friends first of all in the dignity, courage and determination you have shown in the fight to get your husband home, where three little children aged 12, 11 and 8 years waiting for the return of their father, to show this honor of our house. because of death threats, including against you personally, you were forced to flee with your children to canada, where you were granted asylum and from where you are waging your tireless fight for your husband's freedom, where you are giving him a voice while he is prevented from using his own voice. and so, on behalf of all of us here at this place, i again call on king salman to pardon raif badawi and release him immediately and unconditionally and return him to his family. (applause from the centre) despite the high risk, raif badawi courageously tried to promote free thought as a blogger. he has not taken anything for granted but his right to free speech, and he has filled a void through his blog, a void in a country where there is a vacuum, a void for free speech, due to the lack of a free press. raif badawi raised his voice for the right, the human right, to speak his mind freely. he called for a society in his country that was open to the views of others. as he told you from prison, when he dictated the foreword to the book containing his collected writings over the phone, he says he is committed to enlightening his community and breaking down the walls of ignorance. it is aimed at questioning the inviolability of the clergy in his country and guaranteeing respect for freedom of expression and freedom of religion and guaranteeing respect for the rights of women and the protection of minorities and the fundamental civil rights of each and every individual. with this in mind, raif badawi founded the online forum 'the saudi liberals' in 2006 to publicly discuss the need for reforms at the religious, cultural and political levels in a discussion forum. two years later, the government forced him to shut down the forum. but he didn't give up. on the contrary, he came back with a new internet forum, the "free saudi liberal network". this network had tens of thousands of members who discussed religion and politics. and when the so-called arab spring emerged in the region, there was a lively debate in this network and on this platform. the closure of badawi's website was a great loss for freedom of expression in his country. it wasn't just censored. we all know that. he was arrested and received the first 50 lashes in front of a roaring crowd. his flogging shocked the whole world. people everywhere took to the streets and used social media - its tool - to condemn this cruelty. raif badawi has become a symbol and an inspiration for all those who fight for fundamental rights not only in the region but also far beyond, all over the world. in fact, raif badawi is not alone in this fight. his own lawyer waleed abu al-khair, 36, is serving a 15-year prison sentence. as the founder of the human rights observatory, he was convicted along with other defendants for tweets that denounced human rights violations. in october this year, dr. abdulkarim al-khodr, co-founder of the saudi association for civil and political rights, was jailed as the tenth founding member of that organization. he was sentenced to eight years in prison and a ten-year travel ban. just a few weeks ago, ashraf fayadh, a young poet and exhibition curator, was sentenced to death for apostasy, for abandoning the faith. his trial was condemned worldwide for its lack of due process and legal aid. ali mohammed an-nimr is 21 years old. he was not yet 18 when he was arrested for demonstrating for equal rights in saudi arabia. therefore, he is sentenced to death by crucifixion. we are concerned and shocked by reports that this sentence is to be carried out in the next few days. as we did for raif badawi, we called on the saudi authorities in a european parliament resolution, and i say this again on behalf of all of us here and publicly: release mr ali mohammed an-nimr! cancel the death sentence! forget this cruel punishment! (applause from the centre) these are just a few of the many cases of political prisoners who are subjected to inhuman treatment, humiliation and the death penalty. we now urge the saudi authorities to end the systematic suppression of peaceful expression of opinion and to finally comply with the many international commitments that the country has ratified, such as the convention against torture, ratified by saudi arabia, the convention on the rights of the child and the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. the international community and the saudi society have the right to demand higher standards from the saudi authorities, as the country has been elected to the un human rights council. it was stressed that the deplorable human rights situation certainly does not fit with this responsibility that the country has assumed in the framework of the united nations. in the country that has become a member of the united nations human rights council, 150 people have been executed this year alone. saudi society demands public communication: saudi society has the highest number of active social media users in the world. but the internet is heavily censored, with 400,000 websites blocked alone. worse still, those who use the internet and social media to express their thoughts freely are severely punished. but we are ready for dialogue - not just as the european parliament, but also as the international community. a human rights dialogue between the eu and saudi arabia, supported at parliamentary level, could help to improve the situation, promote mutual understanding and support reforms. there have been some positive developments, to be sure. the council of ministers has approved a law on private associations and organizations, which hopefully will soon allow ngos to work in the country itself and have unhindered access to civil society. there has been some progress in women's suffrage, but the country is far from achieving equality for women. we fight for equal rights for men and women and against all forms of discrimination. and we call on saudi arabia to fulfill its promises and finally abolish the system of male guardianship over women. this is not the 21st century! (applause from the centre) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. no terror, no inhuman criminal law will stop us from fighting for human rights. and no security argument, no arms deal, no oil deal can stop us from doing that. raif badawi put it this way: "freedom of expression is the air a thinker breathes, just as it is the fuel that ignites the fire of his ideas". ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to present the european parliament's sakharov prize for freedom of thought for the year 2015 to raif badawi. i hope very much that we will be able to welcome him personally in our chamber in the near future. (applause from the centre)
i am not going to go into detail. i think i can thank mrs haidar again on behalf of all of you. i had the opportunity to have a long talk with mrs haidar before the speech. you'll be like me. mrs haidar told me about her three children - a 12-year-old girl, an 11-year-old boy and an 8-year-old girl - who are waiting for their father in canada. mrs. haidar told me that every time mr. badawi calls her, he asks one question: "do the children not forget me?" i think we can all understand what that means for a father, but also for a mother who, under the circumstances, has to be on the phone with her husband asking that question. she said, "no, i tell him that every time, the kids won't forget you". no one will forget you. our ceremony today was a way for the children to know that their father is not forgotten. we fight for him. and to you, mrs. haidar, i think everyone in this room admires your great courage. thank you for your speech. (applause from the centre)
madam president, in the middle of the text i propose to add a sentence which reads, ‘urges china to reconsider its stance and calls on all the parties including china to respect the eventual decision of unclos’.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of extending the term of office of the chairman of the european banking authority (eba) because i believe that staffing and a rigorous continuation of work are both right and important.
in writing. ‒ after careful consideration, i have agreed to the extension of the term of office of the chairman of the european banking authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the extension of the term of office of the chairman of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) because i believe that staffing and a rigorous continuation of work are right and important.
in writing. ‒ after careful consideration, i have agreed to the extension of the term of office of the chairman of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of extending the term of office of the chairman of the european securities and markets authority (esma), as i believe that it is right and important to continue the good and successful work in this area in the interests of the european smes.
in writing. ‒ after careful consideration, i have agreed to the extension of the term of office of the chair of the european securities and markets authority.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report because we should intensify exchanges between bosnia and herzegovina as a direct neighbour and europol. this cooperation will facilitate the exchange of expertise, results of strategic analyses, information on criminal investigation procedures and information on prevention methods. this can help to effectively combat serious crime.
in writing. ‒ bosnia and herzegovina is becoming increasingly important for the successful fight against organised crime. this is why closer cooperation is important and forward-looking.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: ireland's application egf/2015/006 ie/pwa international, as i consider the globalisation fund as a whole to be an inappropriate, inefficient instrument.
in writing. ‒ europe has benefited from the continuing globalisation and will continue to do so in the future. we must give citizens who have lost their jobs as a result of international competition consistent support for their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ the european global adjustment fund, which helps workers find new jobs and develop new skills when they have lost their jobs as a result of changing global trade patterns, contributes eur 2.6 million to the finnish fund and eur 442 293 to the irish fund. though i fully support measures which put in place policies that create growth and jobs, my group and i do not believe that the egf is the right tool for putting in place such policies, nor that is an efficient tool, which is why i have voted against this proposal. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the basis for such a list must be relevant risk assessments. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's fisheries policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new species.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the rejection under article 106 of the iuu: list of invasive alien species, because i had studied the list extensively in advance and had found, among other things, a lack of logic and insufficient scientific basis in the example of the raccoon. i call on the european commission to withdraw this implementing provision. member states should suspend application of the list and respect parliament's vote. we need a new, better list!
i have to say, madam president, i would like to ask all those who say that the risk assessment is not yet all-encompassing and not yet certain, that we should agree once again to allow genetic engineering research to be carried out in the european union, which would also make proper risk assessment possible. i am extremely sorry that, by saying no to genetic engineering, we are also pushing research out of the european union. it would be necessary for us to continue here in the sense of basic research, because the alternative is that other regions of the world then take over the research, that the other regions of the world then take over the risk assessment. i would like to expressly participate in this debate. i repeat: this also requires research in the european union on this problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of rejecting the authorisation of the genetically modified maize variety nk603xt25 under article 106 of the general agreement on tariffs and trade, because i consider the cultivation of genetically modified organisms and the excessive market power of individual companies to be politically and morally unacceptable.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the report 'more transparency, coordination and convergence of corporate tax policies' because i support any measure in europe that ensures more tax fairness and puts international corporations under the obligation to do what every citizen or smes knows.
in writing. ‒ together with my colleagues from the epp group, i have once again campaigned for effective and fair tax systems. transparent corporate taxation ensures that existing tax rules continue to be respected. however, the real problem is not the taxation models of individual countries. the lack of cooperation between the member states is the cause of the emergence of ever new tax loopholes.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the report on eu-china relations today because i support the critical approach of my colleague mr belder. at the same time, i would like to call attention to the human rights violations in china - such as those against members of falun gong or in the case of illegal forced organ trafficking - and i would ask the eu to name them without reservation. human rights are always above economic policy!
in writing. ‒ the 40th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the eu and china is a success for both countries. the development of this relationship offers many opportunities for both sides. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations. the respect of human rights in china remains a serious problem. the report deals in detail with the situation in tibet and the restriction of individual freedoms. however, the report supports a constructive approach in dealing with china. i voted for this report because it is balanced and takes account of the various aspects of eu-china relations. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations. the respect of human rights in china remains a serious problem. the report deals in detail with the situation in tibet and the restriction of individual freedoms. the report also supports a constructive approach to china. i voted for this report because it is balanced and takes account of the various aspects of eu-china relations.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations. the respect of human rights in china remains a serious problem. the report deals in detail with the situation in tibet and the restriction of individual freedoms. however, the report supports a constructive approach in dealing with china. i voted for this report because it is balanced and takes account of the various aspects of eu-china relations.
in writing. ‒ good relations with the people's republic of china are of paramount importance to us europeans economically, culturally and in terms of security. china will soon be the largest economy in the world and europe's most important trading partner. so it's important that we have dialogue with the chinese at all levels. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the same applies to the situation in tibet, hong kong and taiwan, where many people are suffering under beijing's policies. the report rightly states that the eu must repeatedly call for dialogue and willingness to talk and identify the problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i therefore agreed today.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations. the respect of human rights in china remains a serious problem. the report deals in detail with the situation in tibet and the restriction of individual freedoms. however, the report supports a constructive approach in dealing with china. i voted for this report because it is balanced and takes account of the various aspects of eu-china relations.
in writing. ‒ the report advocates close cooperation with china on global challenges such as climate change and strong engagement of china in international business organisations. the respect of human rights in china remains a serious problem. the report deals in detail with the situation in tibet and the restriction of individual freedoms. however, the report supports a constructive approach in dealing with china. i voted for this report because it is balanced and takes account of the various aspects of eu-china relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the preparation of the world humanitarian summit: challenges and opportunities for humanitarian aid, because i believe that such a summit makes sense. we must create a new culture of charity for our world.
in writing. ‒ it is important that the world humanitarian summit is thoroughly prepared. the world community is facing humanitarian crises that far exceed those of the past. this is why it is important that solutions are developed at international level. what we need is a road map that will last for years to come.
in writing. ‒ the report discusses the european union's objectives in the run-up to the first world humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016. the report contains a number of good recommendations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: on the other hand, there are some problematic parts. among other things, it calls for mandatory funding by donor countries, without specifying how these mandatory payments are controlled, who is responsible for this and what the respective amount will be for the respective donor country. i have therefore abstained. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report discusses the european union's objectives in the run-up to the first world humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016. the report contains a number of good recommendations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: on the other hand, there are some problematic parts. among other things, it calls for mandatory funding by donor countries, without specifying how these mandatory payments are controlled, who is responsible for this and what the respective amount will be for the respective donor country. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ the report discusses the european union's objectives in the run-up to the first world humanitarian summit to be held in istanbul on 23 and 24 may 2016. the report contains a number of good recommendations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the programme to include the following areas: on the other hand, there are some problematic parts. among other things, it calls for mandatory funding by donor countries, without specifying how these mandatory payments are controlled, who is responsible for this and what the respective amount will be for the respective donor country. i have therefore abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the development of a sustainable european base metal industry today because i see the proposed approach as clearly lacking the concept of sustainability and calling for a different approach.
in writing. ‒ industry is in particularly intense competition with international competitors. the environmental standards in europe may put domestic companies at a competitive disadvantage. in these cases, our task is to protect jobs and to maintain the competitiveness of enterprises.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to work towards the development of a functioning secondary metal market and the circular economy. the problem was that the report also called for border duties, i.e. a carbon tax on imports. i have decided to vote against the report because of the support for non-tariff barriers and protectionism. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to work towards the development of a functioning secondary metal market and the circular economy. the problem was that the report also called for border duties, i.e. a carbon tax on imports. i have decided to vote against the report because of the support for non-tariff barriers and protectionism.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to work towards the development of a functioning secondary metal market and the circular economy. the problem was that the report also called for border duties, i.e. a carbon tax on imports. i have decided to vote against the report because of the support for non-tariff barriers and protectionism.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission to work towards the development of a functioning secondary metal market and the circular economy. the problem was that the report also called for border duties, i.e. a carbon tax on imports. i have decided to vote against the report because of the support for non-tariff barriers and protectionism.
in writing. ‒ we must stand together as europe to meet the challenges of the current crises. individual blame is not relevant here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, as a long-time member of amnesty international i have to come to the conclusion that this parliament can be the most effective advocate of human rights in the world. the annual report shows us that globalisation does not only send goods and money and investments around the world, but also values and good ideas. today there are more democracies in the world than ever before. by the way, i do not know of any democracy which does not have a market-driven economic system implemented, and more countries than ever have abolished the death penalty. however, let me be quite frank here today. in the course of the discussions with members of other political groups, i have come to the conclusion that some of them misuse human rights to ride their ideological hobby horses. what do the raif badawis in the prisons of the world think when they hear that this report elaborates on financial transactions and labour standards? what do they think when they hear that there are demands of social dialogues and labour standards, medical policies and climate change? of course, in the end, all committees of this house have dealt and deal with issues which have something to do with humans. but if the subcommittee on human rights keeps on ever expanding the definition of human rights, then we might as well close down all other committees of this house. more importantly, we divide and divert the attention given to those who really need our engagement for human rights. therefore, in order to send a signal, the ecr political group will this time abstain. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– to my knowledge, no country in the european union has the death penalty, and i am quite sure that in europe it is only belarus which still has the death penalty. all other countries in europe have abolished it. unfortunately, that is not the case for most islamic states, where i think only turkey has abolished the death penalty. even the abolition of the death penalty in turkey is basically due to pressure from the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2014 and the eu's policy in this area is, as it is every year, a comprehensive report that provides a good overview of the eu's multi-faceted engagement. keeping human rights at the heart, at the centre of eu policy, is a guiding principle that is very often found in commission and parliament papers. this is also an important focus for all eu policies. however, looking back on 2014 and 2015, this guideline seems to me to have become a bit shallow. the images of desperate war refugees at the eu's external borders are too memorable, the refusal to accept refugees into the eu too shameful. even high representative mogherini has warned that this could damage the eu's reputation for pursuing a values-based policy. the eu's refugee and migration policy does well to adhere strictly to international law and not to water down protection standards. as foreseen in the juncker plan, we must expand the possibilities for legal reception and provide generous humanitarian aid to alleviate the plight of people in the refugee camps around the war zones in the middle east and africa. i would like to focus briefly on two issues in the annual report. the issue of sport and human rights is becoming increasingly important, especially in view of the forthcoming football world cups in russia and qatar and the olympic games in beijing. it is good that we have spoken in the report on sport and human rights and expressed our concern that some of the biggest sporting events are often held in authoritarian states with a devastating human rights record. major sporting events should be in line with human rights. the evaluation of the concrete human rights situation in a country must be the decisive criterion for the award of a major event. it is very regrettable that there is no reference to sport and human rights in the new european union human rights action plan. the last issue is the fight against impunity. the eu and its member states are long-standing and committed supporters of international law and in particular of the rights of victims. this is evident, for example, in the support for the international criminal court and the guidelines for the promotion of international humanitarian law. support for the international criminal court at the highest political level is more important than ever. my question to the commission and the eeas is: how do you see your role in pointing out serious violations of international law and in working to ensure that perpetrators are held to account?
(parliament adopted the legislative resolution) no, i think it is more sensible to continue the discussion.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have heard a lot about freedom of expression today at the sakharov prize ceremony. i can fully support what president schulz has said, and what mr preda has said in his report. i wonder, however, where the implementation of human rights and freedom of expression are in europe. do you know that in germany alone, over a thousand patriots are in prison for speaking their mind? mr badawi was sentenced to 10 years in prison, but in germany my friend horst mahler was sentenced to 15 or 12 years for expressing his opinion freely. his leg was amputated in the seventh year of his imprisonment because he did not have enough freedom of movement as a diabetic. i have been able to see for myself in greece this spring how seven national deputies of the golden dawn were imprisoned in a prison unworthy of europe. to date, no indictment has been served on these seven people. we are currently witnessing the proscription of a party in greece. does this have anything to do with freedom of speech? my party, the npd, is to be banned in germany. does this have anything to do with freedom of speech? if so, then freedom of expression should apply to everyone in europe before we look to third world countries.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mrs. schaake, thank you for accepting my question after mrs. lochbihler just nodded, which i've rarely experienced. but i want to ask you the same question: they rightly point out that there is inhuman behaviour in the eu, that refugees are treated in an inhuman way, and it is greece in particular that is the focus of criticism there. the european court of human rights and the ecj have pointed this out in many judgments since 2009. the other european countries are not allowed to return refugees to greece. do you agree that the european union should then make its aid payments to greece conditional on greece treating its refugees with humanity?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the human rights and democracy domains should be more coherently integrated into all policy areas such as foreign, security, trade and development policy. this is particularly important for the implementation of the 2030 goals that were set in new york this autumn. i also welcome the joint action plan of the high representative/member of the commission federica mogherini on human rights and democracy. i would like to emphasize that the additional protocol on social and cultural rights has not yet been signed by most of the european states. the implementation of the 2030 agenda is yet to be seen. the importance of binding standards in enterprises is also highlighted: social standards and compliance with the ilo core labour standards. the principle of good work worldwide must therefore also be implemented globally in relation to the 2030 agenda. the rights of women and girls - especially the right to education - are also still severely restricted. that has to change. the gender equality action plan urgently needs to be upgraded.
i would remind the visitors that applause is not permitted in the plenary. only members are allowed.
thank you very much, a very important observation. (end of catch-the eye procedure)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 17 december 2015. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing.– the european union is founded on a shared determination to promote peace and stability and to build a world founded on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. these principles underpin all aspects of the internal and external policies of the european union and are also applicable to our enlargement policy. the european union’s enlargement policy in the western balkans shows that this policy is the strongest tool for reinforcing respect for human rights and democratic principles in our closest neighbourhood. i welcome that this has clearly been stated in the report. in the recent past, the western balkan countries have adopted important reforms to strengthen human rights. however, we must not get tired of emphasising that the best reforms are worth nothing if they are not implemented. the european union should continue to actively support democratic, effective and independent institutions, civil society and free media in the balkans to ensure that human rights remain at the centre of our enlargement policy.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the internment of asylum seekers and the use of force against them (2015/3021 ((rsp)).
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of our presidency we have been actively engaged in seeking solutions to the humanitarian crisis caused by migratory flows. we have shown our firm determination to act without delay to find effective measures, based on solidarity and respect for human rights. the policy pursued by the council is to combine all efforts to safeguard the rights of persons in need of international protection and, at the same time, to improve the control of external borders and thus guarantee the security of persons living in the territory of the union. respect for fundamental rights is at the heart of the union's migration policy and the common european asylum system. we must respond effectively to the humanitarian emergency and guarantee the right to seek international protection in accordance with our international obligations. as regards detention, the basic rule of international and european law is that a migrant, like any other person, enjoys the right to freedom. detention may only be exceptional and not arbitrary. it is justified only for a number of specific reasons and in specific situations. these are described in detail in the instruments of the asylum and migration acquis, in particular the return directive and the reception conditions for asylum seekers directive. the return directive provides, as a general rule, that member states may only use detention after other sufficient but less coercive measures have been applied. it's the first paragraph of article 15. any detention shall be as brief as possible and may be extended only for as long as the removal device, which must be carried out with all due diligence, is in operation. similarly, article 8 of the directive on the reception conditions for asylum seekers provides that no one may be detained solely on the ground that he is seeking international protection. detention shall be possible only where necessary and on a case-by-case basis, if other less coercive measures cannot be effectively applied. in accordance with their international commitments and eu rules, member states must guarantee the human rights of refugees and migrants, including the obligations contained in the directives. in the event of non-application of european legislation by the member states, it would be for the commission, as guardian of the treaties, to take appropriate measures. in order to improve the effectiveness of the union return system, the council has stated on several occasions in recent months that the use of detention can only be a measure of last resort and therefore can only be implemented if other measures prove not to be possible. in its conclusions of 9 november, the council decided that member states could effectively take advantage of the opportunities offered by the union's acquis in cases of lack of cooperation on the part of migrants on their arrival in the european union. these may include coercive measures, including, as a last resort, detention for no longer than is necessary to complete the underlying proceedings. however, this is only possible if the authorities fully respect fundamental rights and the principle of non-refoulement. in the recent council decision on the relocation of 120 000 persons from italy and greece, member states agreed that where voluntary return is not possible and other measures provided for in the return directive are not appropriate to prevent secondary movements, detention measures in accordance with the return directive should be able to be applied as a matter of urgency and in an effective manner. in this context, i would like to point out that migrants do not have a choice of place of protection and that their full cooperation is required to make relocation work. finally, as regards the use of force in the context of fingerprinting, i refer to the checklist published by the european agency for fundamental rights on 22 october last, which should henceforth guide the action of experts on the ground. in conclusion, the issue of detention will remain an important issue, the exceptional nature of which must be emphasised, and we will continue to follow this issue closely, especially as clarifications from the court of justice of the european union on this issue are expected in the near future.
member of the commission.– mr president, the commission fully shares with parliament the objective of ensuring the full compliance of our policies with human rights and human dignity. this was at the centre of the debate on the report on human rights and democracy, which was just discussed some minutes ago. this is also a key concern when it comes to asylum seekers. having said this, i turn now to the topic of the statement: detention and the use of force against asylum seekers. the rights to liberty and security of person are fundamental human rights. the right to asylum is also a fundamental right. in the past few months, as you remember, we have made a lot of effort to communicate, and deliver on all fronts, the fact that eu legislation has to be respected. this means the respect of all aspects of the asylum legislation. in this context, as long as there was a prior non-refoulement and proportionality check, countries could refuse entry to individuals who did not express a wish to apply for international protection. as you also know, we make efforts to ensure the proper registration of migrants, irrespective of their status. this is a precondition for appropriately managing the flows and setting the rights and duties of migrants. let me clarify what eu law requires. with the recast directives on asylum adopted in codecision, the eu acquis contains clear rules on detention of asylum seekers that strike a balance between those rights. it is therefore essential that persons are only detained in full compliance with these rules. detention can only be applied as a measure of last resort, and only after all alternatives to detention have been duly considered. we all agree that a person should never be detained for the sole reason that he or she is an asylum seeker. at the same time, when there is a significant risk of absconding, a member state should place a migrant in detention where that is necessary and proportionate. moreover, the directive on reception conditions provides that the detention conditions of asylum seekers must fully respect human dignity and meet their needs. having a solid legal framework is only going halfway, though. the challenge now is to ensure the correct and coherent transposition and implementation of these rules. the commission is closely monitoring the respect of member states for the eu rules on detention. member states had to transpose the reception conditions directive by july 2015. the commission has sent letters of formal notice to those member states that did not communicate the transposition measures. in addition to legislation, the commission also pays attention to member states’ practice in this area. the commission has also provided guidance to member states to facilitate the systematic fingerprinting of migrants. the aim is to ensure better management of migration flows, via a better implementation of the eurodac regulation, while fully respecting the fundamental rights of the migrants. thank you for your attention. i would like to ask for your understanding because, as you know, the previous debate lasted longer than planned, and i have to catch the last flight to berlin in half an hour from now. thank you very much for your understanding. commissioner stylianides will replace me.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, thank you very much for this brief overview. i am particularly concerned that there are a number of member states in the european union where the human rights of refugees and economic migrants are not sufficiently respected. there is no reason for excessive violence, no matter who is migrating, or even for prison-like structures, some of which, as the unhcr has called them, are even worse than what is happening in prisons: no food, little to drink, no medical care, worst sanitation, sometimes daily use of tear gas. this is happening partly in greece, it can be in hungary, it can be in slovakia, it can be in different member states of the european union. i have to say that with all the critical debate we have about who is eligible to immigrate and who is not, there has to be a proper way of dealing with the people who come to us. then we can agree on procedures and discuss all sorts of issues. but these things must be guaranteed. the obligation to register certainly requires that information be provided at an early stage. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment, and on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. there are thousands of children who have disappeared and who can therefore quickly become victims of crime again, because in their helplessness they are then exploited for the most vicious and brutal purposes by organized crime and the like. let us really work together on this and be reasonable.
mr president, i had a look at president tusk’s job description and helpfully he publishes it on the website, and it reads that he is supposed to help to ‘facilitate cohesion and consensus within the european council’. now, i am not sure mr tusk looks at this job description and website very often. maybe he should, because the interview that he has been giving to the guardian and other newspapers was surely not very helpful in this regard. president tusk unfortunately also does not seem to be very firm on eu legislation or else he would not have made proposals that go against european law and also against any sort of humanitarian sense. but then again, it is not he who is guardian of the treaty. this is not his task, it is the task of the commission, so i am very sure that mr juncker had a good talk with mr tusk and that we will in future be hearing more, let us say, consensual and more forward-bringing issues and descriptions from our president of the council.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as a long-time member of amnesty international, i was very pleased to see that today there was a lot of truth in what was said about the rights of refugees, and i would like to add that it is a shame how often refugees are attacked or refugee shelters set on fire in my country. but in the interests of those who have the right to remain in the country, we must also talk about their duties. refugees who destroy their identity papers at the eu border or who misrepresent their identity behind the border, who are desperate to continue their sectarian and ethnic quarrels with violence in europe, should be sent home without question. for those who remain, integration is not only a european debt, but also a refugee debt. that message should also come from this parliament. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have always been a member of amnesty international and i have always campaigned for the dismantling of the prison at guantánamo, and i can therefore only say no.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. twenty years after the dayton agreement, memories are coming back: memories of hatred, of crimes, of the many dead, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters, but also of the belated victory, the very belated victory of diplomacy over war. we are pleased that this agreement has been concluded, because it has just shown that there is a future for this country too. since then, there has certainly been progress in bosnia and herzegovina and some steps towards europe, the eu. we urge and we encourage, we encourage the authorities there to make further and greater efforts to improve the situation in the country. we support the eu's new approach towards bosnia and herzegovina because, as federica mogherini said, it is a real chance and opportunity for this country and for the european union to come closer together - not just in words but also in deeds - and to test whether there is really a real will - not from the population but especially from the political leadership - to start a new phase. dayton brought the war to an end. but real peace, especially in bosnia and herzegovina, requires more common ground and certainly not an attempt to fragment the judiciary. we cannot accept this without comment when we are dealing with a partner who is on his way to the european union. it is the task of political leadership to strive for significant progress - not for the eu, but for its own citizens, for its own country. and it's our job to help them do that. we have adopted a short joint resolution because we thought it was right to speak specifically on this point. we can discuss everything else when we discuss the report.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the dayton accords were good enough to stop a war, but they're obviously not good enough to shape the future. that is why the necessary reforms are needed here, which all the party leaders have promised. but it's been going on for so long that we're increasingly asking the question: is there the political will? how long is this gonna take? then it is necessary to create a federal system with clear central authority so that such a state system can function. this is a decision which only the citizens and politicians of bosnia and herzegovina can make. but we must see that the attempts to destroy that country, for example in republika srpska, with a legally unclean referendum, the measures which go against community legal systems, as in recent days, are all measures which do not strengthen the country. i think we should make it clear that the necessary reforms are being carried out, that the saa needs to be adapted, that the reasonable coordination mechanisms need to be applied, that the high level of youth unemployment needs to be tackled. but we must also see that a country with 14 governments and 14 parliaments cannot be really run and that is why we must find the right mix of central government and federalism with decentralisation. this is an important prerequisite for this country to find peace with all its different ethnic and religious backgrounds, with its difficult history, and to find an inner unity in spite of all its differences. i think it is also important that we see that everyone agrees that europe is the goal. but it must also be remembered that the european objective can only be achieved if the internal problems of this country are solved in a reasonable way before accession. they cannot be dissolved after accession. that is why the constitutional changes needed to achieve this should be made quickly.
i have to say, madam president, we must regret that 20 years after dayton the political parties that exist along ethnic lines have not developed the spirit of community to strengthen the whole state. i am also acutely concerned about recent events and i am surprised that the presidency has said nothing about it. at the end of november, there was a ruling by the constitutional court that declared a national holiday on january 9 illegal in republika srpska. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the parliament of the republika srpska has decided to cease cooperation with the institutions of the state of bosnia and herzegovina at several levels. it has been forbidden that the federal criminal office of bosnia and herzegovina, so to speak, can no longer be active in the republika srpska and it has been declared an unconstitutional institution of the prosecutor's office of the court of bosnia and herzegovina, which is illegal on the territory of the republika srpska. it was decided that republika srpska would no longer cooperate with the general prosecutor's office and the constitutional court. mr dodik also talks about demanding that the international judges in the constitutional court, for example, be withdrawn. my question to the presidency is: how do we respond to this? are we just gonna let this happen? do we have a handle? my specific question is: are you asking high commissioner inzko to use his bonn powers to prevent further escalation there? i think we have to give a very concrete answer to that.
president-in-office of the council.– madam president, honourable members, on behalf of the high representative, ms mogherini, we very much welcome the preparation and discussion of the report prepared by the honourable ms valero. this is a testimony to parliamentary scrutiny over arms exports, which is a sound follow-up to transparency applied at eu level on arms export issues. interaction channels with parliament, and with ngos and civil society, on arms export issues have been opened and have developed over the years. this is an invaluable achievement, and it illustrates that transparency and dialogue can fruitfully take place without prejudice to the respective responsibilities of national and eu stakeholders. at a time when we advocate further transparency worldwide, notably via the arms trade treaty, we believe it is important to flag that transparency does not run counter to national and regional security. the eu framework governing arms exports mainly revolves around the eu common position on arms exports adopted in 2008. this framework is unique. it is based on national responsibility of eu member states, on licensing decisions, together with well-developed information sharing on licence denials and risk assessment. the risk assessment criteria laid down by the eu common position are comprehensive and far-reaching, notably in terms of respect for human rights and international humanitarian law, risk of diversion and impact on internal and regional stability. the daily application by national licensing officers is supported by common eu guidelines that have just been revised in 2015, notably in order to align them with the arms trade treaty. against this background of national responsibility exercised within common risk—assessment criteria, the overarching objective of the eu common position is to promote convergence of national arms export policies. in support of this objective, the council and the european external action service provide an information sharing platform which is the dedicated council working group on arms exports, and an it platform enabling to exchange details on license denials. like the eu guidelines, these information sharing components have been recently overhauled as a result of the review of the eu common position achieved in 2015. this should further contribute to convergence of arms export policies as they are now being put into practice. let me now briefly widen the picture outside the eu. firstly, in our close neighbourhood, a number of third countries – mainly in the eastern neighbourhood – have aligned with the criteria of the eu common position. to assist them in their daily operational implementation, the eu has had an outreach programme funding technical cooperation in place since 2009. the new phase covering 2016-2017 has just been adopted by the council. secondly, and moving to an even larger picture, i have to refer to the arms trade treaty. it sets unique and widely accepted standards to achieve greater responsibility and transparency in the arms trade. the att entered into force in december 2014, and so far 130 states have signed it and 78 have ratified it, including 26 eu member states. we urge the two remaining countries to ratify it as quickly as possible. of note, however, is that some of the largest arms exporters and importers, such as russia, china, india and pakistan, have not signed or ratified it. here again the eu does a lot to support the effective implementation and universalisation of the att. today the dedicated eu assistance programme, with its eur 6.4 million budget, is active in 10 countries in latin america, the caribbean, africa and asia. in addition to this tangible action on the ground, all diplomatic opportunities are used to encourage countries that have taken no steps towards the treaty to join it, possibly enabling them to benefit from the eu assistance programme where needed and requested. the arms trade is getting more and more globalised. it is our duty to lead by example when it comes to arms exports from the eu. it is equally our duty to encourage and support other arms manufacturers and traders to apply the att standards.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is good that the european union has such a common position that the council has agreed to it. we are the only major region in the world that has this. we have heard from the presidency that this is apparently having a positive effect on the eastern neighbourhood, that there are also countries there which are adopting the content of this common position. i also support what you have said on the arms trade treaty and i take up the call for the remaining two member states, which are still absent, to ratify this treaty. we have a changed security situation, as the rapporteur has pointed out. the need to pursue a more common foreign, security and defence policy will also mean that our export behaviour will be similar, so there will be a convergence in terms of where we export arms, because of course the assessment of the security situation and the risks must be closer and closer if we also pursue a common policy there. this is the case, for example, when the security situation changes and my country, germany, for the first time delivers weapons to a region - to the peshmerga in northern iraq - in order to help them defend themselves and a threatened population group, such as the yazidis, for example. i think we must take that into account and i hope that, in the future, we will continue to deal responsibly with our exports in the light of this common position. i am not entirely satisfied with the overall tone of this report, because i suspect too much that our governments have bad intentions. i don't share that. i am confident that our governments will adopt the common position on this.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the rapporteur for this annual report and welcome the key demand for an independent european arms control authority under the auspices of the high representative of the european union. i also regret that, as described in the report, only 21 member states have provided comprehensive data for the 16th annual report. unfortunately, germany is not yet involved either. the urgent need for european security and defence policy and the pooling and sharing of arms products must, in my view, be accompanied by the creation of common restrictive standards in export policy. we must ensure that existing national export policies are not relaxed. it is not possible that economic interests or the financial basis for arms research should be used as an incentive to export as many weapons as possible to countries outside the eu. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. only if we can ensure that european weapons do not fall into the wrong hands can we be responsible for co-financing defence research projects with eu funds. i share the report's concern that eu export controls can be circumvented by licensing manufacturing in third countries or by establishing subsidiaries of eu companies. i therefore support the approach of the german government that the transfer of licensed products of small arms to third countries will be prohibited in the future. i also support the report's aim of including the european comparison in the next annual report. the fact that the german government is already offering subsidies to companies in the arms industry to use their technical intelligence to produce something other than weapons is, along with increased arms export controls, a step in the right direction, a step to get closer to the biblical image of 'swords to plowshares'.
i have to say, madam president, the report on arms exports rightly focuses on the worrying global security situation. the civil wars in syria, yemen and libya, and the armed conflict between government troops and separatists in eastern ukraine, call for the most responsible use of arms. their uncontrolled spread is a serious threat to peace, security, human rights and sustainable development. arms deliveries to states in conflict increase the likelihood of an escalation of violence. the regulation of the international arms trade is therefore an absolute necessity, as without controls, terrorists and repressive regimes in the eu's neighbouring countries will also be strengthened. the eu has produced a catalogue of rules in 2008. since then, arms exports to crisis regions have been strictly regulated. the same applies to the transfer of sensitive knowledge and defence technology to third countries. however, the right to self-defence must be taken into account. the peshmerga in northern iraq and the ukrainian troops were able to defend themselves against the invaders thanks to european weapons. calls for significantly stronger export criteria and more extensive sanctions are very ambitious, as eu member states already provide detailed data in arms control reports. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. the fight against black trafficking requires the extension of police cooperation between member states, as well as the capacity of europol and eurojust.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in parliament we have only discussed the eu-vietnam comprehensive partnership and cooperation framework agreement and in the committee on foreign affairs we have come to the recommendation to approve the agreement. in order to enable this framework agreement to enter into force, we call on the member states, france, ireland, greece and italy to ratify it as soon as possible. we agreed across the political groups that vietnam-eu relations are on the right track and should be intensified in the areas of trade and development, anti-corruption, human rights, environment and climate change, science and technology, education and culture, peace and security. in recent years vietnam has transformed itself from one of the poorest countries in the world, with the heavy legacy of two cruel wars, into a middle-income country with rapid economic growth. the poverty rate fell from 58% in 1993 to 11.8% in 2011. in achieving the millennium development goals, vietnam has made outstanding progress in the areas of the right to education, the right to housing and the right to food. vietnam's socio-economic development strategy for 2011-2020 focuses on structural reforms, including macroeconomic stability, social justice, and environmental stability. the fight against corruption is also part of macroeconomic stability. the damage caused by corruption to the economy is estimated in an official vietnamese report of 2012 to be between 1.7% and 3.3% of gdp. in the transparency international corruption perceptions index, the country is ranked 119 out of 175 countries. the vietnamese government has taken countermeasures, but more consistent and far-reaching steps still need to be taken. the eu-vietnam human rights dialogue is taking place in hanoi this week. we also call for a clear reorientation of the government in this framework agreement to allow for freedom of expression, even if it includes criticism of government action. there is censorship on the internet, social media and websites are often blocked. almost all print and radio channels are controlled by the state. vietnam is currently a member of the united nations human rights council and has undergone the general review of human rights. it would be too much to list all the human rights violations here. i would just like to emphasize that vietnam has committed itself to implementing improvements in the right to freedom of expression and to allowing an independent civil society as well. last week in strasbourg we discussed with commissioner malmström the eu-vietnam free trade agreement, which has now been ratified. there will be an institutional link between the free trade agreement and the partnership and cooperation agreement. this ensures that human rights and rule of law principles are an essential part of eu-vietnam relations, including in relation to trade between the two parties. the commission has yet to complete the human rights impact assessment requested by the ombudsman. in the area of foreign and security policy, there were also conflicts between chinese and vietnamese fishermen in the south china sea in 2014. we very much welcome the agreement between the heads of state of both states to settle the maritime dispute by peaceful means. we also welcome the declaration by vietnam in spring 2015 of its official support for the request of the philippine government to refer the issue of china's territorial claims in the south china sea to the permanent court of arbitration in the hague. so, on the whole, we have here a very comprehensive resolution with concrete areas of work for joint eu-vietnam cooperation. i would also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive and good cooperation.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i just wanted to comment on some of the last speakers who are still here. of course, the report states that we demand that there should be free trade unions, and the persecution of various religious groups, including the christian minority, is also explicitly mentioned in the report. the whole terminology and presentation of human rights violations is not, in my view, threatening - that is how i understood mr bashir - but it actually reflects the vocabulary and the discourse that the vietnamese government itself maintains, for example within the united nations. the honourable member who said that it might be a threat to mediumsized enterprises in vietnam should be reminded that in this agreement we are calling for a human rights impact assessment of this free trade agreement, which should assess whether large european companies entering the vietnamese market are displacing small smes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have had informal consultations this afternoon and i think that most of the groups will vote against this article, which deals with corruption and visa exemption. i should like to say again, perhaps briefly, that i am surprised to have received an e-mail this afternoon from mr zahradil, the chairman of the vietnamese friendship group, in which he actually indicated that he would not agree to this agreement. so this - i hope i have understood it correctly - relates only to article 33. the agreement is very important and is also being demanded by the vietnamese government, because otherwise it cannot be implemented at all. i can again advocate that we get a large majority for the whole agreement, and of course we can disagree on individual articles.
member of the commission.– mr president, on behalf of my colleague elżbieta bieńkowska, i wish to thank you for giving the commission the opportunity to address parliament on the important issues surrounding patenting and plant breeding rights. let me start by reassuring you that the commission is well aware of these issues. more specifically, we are aware of the breeders’ concerns related to the patentability of plant traits that pre-exist in a plant obtained by essentially biological processes. we are aware that breeders fear having more limited access to biological material. the commission has been closely following the discussion in both the agriculture council and the committee on agriculture and rural development of the european parliament following the rulings of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office. in order to help address the concerns raised by breeders, the commission is currently analysing this issue with the objective of finding a quick and workable solution for all the stakeholders involved. for this very reason, the commission will be cooperating with the forthcoming dutch presidency that has supported such a pragmatic approach which does not entail the need to revise the biotech directive. our wish is to avoid creating long-standing legal uncertainty for the biotech sector when revising or recasting the biotech directive. in particular, this could hinder the development of new biotech products for the benefit of european consumers. the re-opening of the directive would not only put the specific breeders’ issue under the spotlight, but would also trigger discussions on issues that the directive and subsequent decisions of the court of justice of the european union have clarified. examples of these issues are the limit on the patentability for inventions relating to embryonic stem cells and the scope of protection of inventions relating to genes. the solutions brought forward by the directive and the subsequent decisions of the court have integrated ethical considerations. they are considered to offer the appropriate balance, by both researchers and the industrial sectors most linked to biotechnological inventions. having said that, the commission is highly aware of its task to monitor scientific and legal developments as well as their implications on current patent law in the biotechnological field in europe. the commission is also aware of its responsibility to report on these issues to parliament, the council and the broad public as well. before concluding, let me stress that a biotech expert group has been set up with a mandate to provide the commission with expertise, analysis and comments on the rapid evolutions in this field. the group is discussing, among other issues, the patentability of products obtained by essentially biological processes and the report that this group will soon produce will further support our analysis. i wish to assure the house that the commission is giving high importance to working on a timely and pragmatic resolution of this issue so that the current legal uncertainty is resolved in the interests of all concerned. we will, of course, keep parliament informed of any progress.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commission representatives, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have always agreed with a large majority across all the political groups that the breeding of plants and animals should not be patented, that patents should not be granted on plants and animals. for thousands of years, farming has been able to breed without patents, and it must remain so. the possibility of continuing to breed varieties and varieties must be guaranteed to agriculture without being hindered by patents. food security requires that agriculture can develop without patents from large corporations. the judgment of the enlarged board of appeal of the european patent office on broccoli and tomatoes of 25 march 2015 is simply incomprehensible to me. the court of justice has already ruled that the commission's decision to grant the aid must be based on the principle of proportionality. the epp, s&d, ecr and alde have today proposed a joint resolution here to ask the commission to clarify this matter so that biodiversity is guaranteed for agriculture and all those involved in the future. that is the aim of our question and our motion for a resolution.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. i am one of the co-authors of the first resolution on this subject in 2012. we have said essentially exactly what is the subject of the new resolution today. we can only hope that the commission will finally wake up from its deep sleep and take seriously what we decided three years ago. it is incomprehensible - i must be frank - because we have already expressed the same fears. innovation is being held back because it is the small businesses, the small farmers, who are driving the change. the farmers' privilege is being jeopardized and the commission should be thinking about whether we are going to continue to accept what the european patent office has been doing for years in terms of legislation. we are talking about patents on broccoli, patents on tomatoes or peppers, whereas processes are clearly biological breeding processes that have been patented by the patent office. this is a legal practice which we simply cannot accept. the commission must finally intervene because this is contrary to directive 98/44/ec, and that is the law. then the question is, why is the patent office doing this? you can ask yourself that question. well, it's very simple: the patent office makes money by issuing patents, and it's not going to stop on its own. that's why the legislature has to step in. the second point is that, of course, more and more large companies are trying to protect themselves from competition by securing patents. this will primarily affect the european seed industry or european farmers, because they are large companies that have nothing to do with the mass of growers in europe. that is another reason why the commission should intervene. i heard today that the commission said that it was looking into the matter. she's been watching the discussion, too, and she's analyzing it now. they have to report back to us on the impact of the decision. you've had the request since 2003, and you haven't complied with it since. so when will you wake up from your deep sleep, commissioner, when will you finally address these serious problems and give a response to farmers and breeders? i would like to make one further point: we have tabled amendments to what you have probably forgotten: the farmer's privilege has yet to be included in this resolution.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would ask the commission to take the house's unity into account and to step up its activities. the four points which are important to us have been mentioned by my colleagues: the first is to prevent monopolies from being created. secondly, there is the question of scientific freedom, the so-called breeder's privilege, and the word privilege annoys me again. it's not a privilege, it's simply about keeping the breeders' scientific freedom, it's about keeping the farmer's freedom of choice, and it's about not allowing patents on living things. i repeat: this motion for a resolution is a wake-up call to the commission. the very practice of the patent office is contrary to our political convictions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. if it is the legal basis, then we must change the legal basis. if it is a matter of implementation, the patent offices need to be given the necessary instructions.
a writer. the commission is not in malaysia, restrictive laws are used to severely restrict the right to freedom of assembly and expression. civil society actors in particular who express criticism of the government risk being imprisoned and facing politically motivated trials. critical voices are regularly faced with charges of allegedly subversive activities. this sedition act of 1948 is from the colonial era. in the first half of this year alone, more than 40 people were interrogated, detained or charged with alleged subversive activities. blogger and political activist khalid ismath was charged by a court in october under the communications and multimedia act and the sedition act for publications criticizing abuse of power. people have also been arrested under security laws, according to politician khairuddin abu hassan, who was arrested in september for reporting on a corruption case involving a state investment company. we therefore call on the malaysian government to release and lift the charges against all those who are being persecuted for peacefully exercising their rights to freedom of assembly and expression and to reform or repeal these laws. this includes the national security council law passed in december to further restrict civil liberties.
in writing. ‒ i voted today against the decision on the establishment, powers, membership and term of office of the committee of inquiry into emissions measurements in the automotive industry, as i consider the establishment of such a committee to be politically motivated actionism, aimed at unnecessarily spending taxpayers' money and engaging in political bashing at the expense of individual car manufacturers. the need to clarify incidents is beyond question - it is the commission that has to do this, not parliament.
in writing. ‒ parliament has today, with the votes of the social democrats and the greens and against the votes of the epp group, decided to set up a committee of inquiry into the volkswagen emissions scandal. i believe that such a tribunal is unnecessary and counterproductive.
in writing. ‒ the fdp abstained from the vote. we do, however, expressly welcome the fact that the commission's conduct in the vw affair and before that in the implementation of eu legislation is to be fully exposed. however, the mandate of the committee of inquiry is not sufficiently defined and may lead to a general suspicion against the automotive industry. diesel should not be demonized now either, because to achieve our climate goals in europe, lower-carbon diesel is also necessary in the medium term.
in writing. ‒ the fdp abstained from the vote. we do, however, expressly welcome the fact that the commission's conduct in the vw affair and before that in the implementation of eu legislation is to be fully exposed. however, the mandate of the committee of inquiry is not sufficiently defined and may lead to a general suspicion against the automotive industry. diesel should not be demonized now either, because to achieve our climate goals in europe, lower-carbon diesel is also necessary in the medium term.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the eu-vietnam framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation (protocol on the accession of croatia), as i support the technical approach of this report.
in writing. ‒ closer cooperation between european countries and the socialist republic of vietnam is beneficial for both sides. i therefore welcome the intensification of the current relations.
in writing. ‒ closer cooperation between european countries and the socialist republic of vietnam is beneficial for both sides. i therefore welcome the intensification of the current relations.
in writing. ‒ the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation which the eu signed with vietnam in 2010 is based on principles such as equality and human rights, as well as on shared interests. the resolution highlights the positive progress made in the country. however, it also points to the changes that still need to be made in areas such as freedom of religion and of expression, and calls for a moratorium on capital punishment, as well as for ratification of the rome statute of the international criminal court. my group and i strongly believe in cooperation as a vehicle of human rights, which is why i have voted in favour of this report. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in favour of the resolution on completing european economic and monetary union, because i support the approach particularly with regard to the european semester .
in writing. ‒ if we want to continue to reap the benefits of a common economic and monetary union, we need to take corrective measures. this is the only way to continue to increase the social benefits of creating jobs, maintaining financial stability and reducing social inequalities.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the gualtieri resolution because the report calls for greater centralisation, moving towards a european central state. it welcomes the measures proposed in the 'five presidents' report' and calls for more powers for the european parliament and a further devolution of national sovereignty to the european commission. the alfa is in favour of subsidiarity and strongly opposes the european central state. we are convinced that the economic recovery of the eurozone can only begin if the exchange rate distortions caused by the euro are resolved. the report also calls for the creation of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the euro. i cannot agree to a resolution which is one-sided and strongly ideological. that is why i rejected the report. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the gualtieri resolution because the report calls in large part for increased centralisation towards a central european state. it welcomes the measures proposed in the 'five presidents' report' and calls for more powers for the european parliament and a further devolution of national sovereignty to the european commission. the alfa is in favour of subsidiarity and firmly opposes the european central state. we are convinced that the economic recovery of the eurozone can only begin if the exchange rate distortions caused by the euro are resolved. the report also calls for the creation of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the euro. i cannot agree to a resolution which is one-sided and strongly ideological. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the gualtieri resolution because the report calls for greater centralisation, moving towards a european central state. it welcomes the measures proposed in the 'five presidents' report' and calls for more powers for the european parliament and a further devolution of national sovereignty to the european commission. the alfa is in favour of subsidiarity and strongly opposes the european central state. we are convinced that the economic recovery of the eurozone can only begin if the exchange rate distortions caused by the euro are resolved. the report also calls for the creation of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the euro. i cannot agree to a resolution which is one-sided and strongly ideological. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the gualtieri resolution because the report calls for greater centralisation, moving towards a european central state. it welcomes the measures proposed in the 'five presidents' report' and calls for more powers for the european parliament and a further devolution of national sovereignty to the european commission. the alfa is in favour of subsidiarity and strongly opposes the european central state. we are convinced that the economic recovery of the eurozone can only begin if the exchange rate distortions caused by the euro are resolved. the report also calls for the creation of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the euro. i cannot agree to a resolution which is one-sided and strongly ideological. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the gualtieri resolution because the report calls in large part for increased centralisation towards a european central state. it welcomes the measures proposed in the 'five presidents' report' and calls for more powers for the european parliament and a further devolution of national sovereignty to the european commission. the alfa is in favour of subsidiarity and strongly opposes the european central state. we are convinced that the economic recovery of the eurozone can only begin if the exchange rate distortions caused by the euro are resolved. the report also calls for the creation of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the euro. i cannot agree to a resolution which is one-sided and strongly ideological. that is why i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on the 2014 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy in this area today, as the report, as amended by the committee responsible, contains many points that have nothing to do with respect for human rights in some cases even the opposite. i can expressly welcome the first clear vote by the european parliament against inhuman surrogacy.
in writing. ‒ europe must use all political means to promote our common understanding of human rights and the principles of democracy internationally. it is important that we develop an effective action plan for the period 2015-2019 and work with international organisations in this regard.
in writing. ‒ parliament is one of the most effective advocates of human rights, but it always makes the same mistake: it constantly extends the definition of human rights. what would the raif badawis in prisons around the world think when they hear that the 2014 human rights report of the parliament discusses in detail financial transactions and corporate taxation, among other things? we can soon close all the other committees and deal with all human issues in the human rights committee. it's a distraction from those who really need our help. that is why i voted against this report. i am also of the opinion that the single euro must be abolished. it is a source of discord and strife in europe.
in writing. ‒ parliament is one of the most effective advocates of human rights, which i very much welcome in principle. however, the definition of human rights must not be extended permanently. what do people like raif badawi and others in prisons around the world think when they hear that the parliament's human rights report goes into great detail about financial transactions and corporate taxation, among other things? this is an unacceptable extension of the concept of human rights. it's a distraction from those who really need our help. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ parliament is one of the most effective advocates of human rights, but it always makes the same mistake: it constantly extends the definition of human rights. what would the raif badawi in prisons around the world think if they heard that the parliament's human rights report deals in detail with financial transactions and corporate taxation, among other things? we can soon close all the other committees and deal with all human issues in the human rights committee. it's a distraction from those who really need our help. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ parliament is one of the most effective advocates of human rights, but it always makes the same mistake: it constantly extends the definition of human rights. what would the raif badawi in prisons around the world think if they heard that the parliament's human rights report deals in detail with financial transactions and corporate taxation, among other things? we can soon close all the other committees and deal with all human issues in the human rights committee. it's a distraction from those who really need our help. that is why i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ the dayton peace agreement, with the end of the war, created a completely new structure within bosnia and herzegovina. twenty years later, this peace agreement must not be watered down and must continue to exist.
in writing. ‒ we are seeing a marked increase in armed conflict. it is therefore important that europe continues to assume its responsibilities. what we need are sensible and long-term solutions.
in writing. ‒ a political solution involving all regional and international actors is needed. only in this way can a long-term solution be developed for the population concerned. the aim must be to resolve the current humanitarian crisis quickly and effectively.
in writing. ‒ the virunga national park in the democratic republic of congo, a unesco world heritage site, is endangered because of exploitation of oil and illegal activities such as poaching. the oil concessions not only violate international conventions but have given rise to violent conflicts. the eeas is therefore strongly encouraged to convince the government to both investigate these breaches of human rights and to persuade oil companies to halt the exploitation of resources in the park. because of my strong commitment to human rights, and given the urgency of the situation in the virunga national park, i have voted in favour of this resolution. by the way, i believe that the euro must be abolished. it leads to dissension and discord in europe.
