i have to say, madam president, this debate clearly shows the concern about gmos. i hope that the citizens and the government will be given more autonomy, and that is good. the danish delegation to the ecr group will vote in favour of allowing member states flexibility to restrict or prohibit the cultivation of gmos. we must protect our citizens, who are still for the most part against the cultivation of gmos in europe, because the uncertainty about the relationship to human health is still too great. it is therefore important to give member states greater sovereignty in the field of gmo cultivation in order to give them more freedom to make decisions on gmo cultivation on their own territory.
mr president, i would like to thank you. many thanks to federica mogherini for speaking clearly about the very fundamental and great challenges we face in terms of human rights and democracy in egypt. i myself have just returned from egypt after speaking to political parties, the press, ngos, the media and think tanks, and the message from cairo is clear: the eu must now show that we take human rights, the fight for democracy, freedom of expression and media freedom seriously. what we are seeing at the moment is that president al-sisi's grip on civil society, on democracy, on human rights is so hard that people cannot be allowed to speak, that people are being thrown in jail, and you look to the rest of the world to see if we can help. we do not want a situation in egypt where what was the arab spring against democracy, human rights and greater openness is in reality just a generational change in military rule. that is what many people fear at the moment. many say the situation is worse than under mubarak. i therefore call for the eu to make clear its demand for an amendment to article 78 of the criminal code so that human rights activists and political opponents do not risk life imprisonment for receiving foreign aid, for example. this should not be possible. we have to deal with the situation in egypt.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. first of all, i would like to thank jarosław wałęsa for a good report and a really good cooperation, where we have met with the good will to get as much from all of us as possible, and i can also feel how united we are here, also in our thanks to emily o'reilley for a very good piece of work. she has continued the work of nikiforos diamandouros and i think we are in the fortunate position in the eu to have a real ombudsman. we have particularly appreciated the emphasis on the fight for openness, which we then effectively carried through in connection with the requirements of the ttip negotiations, in which the commission had been completely closed. we also look forward to the work on the ombudsman's special report on frontex. the fact that we have tabled a number of amendments is mainly because we feel that we need to give even more force to the demand for a genuine regulation on good administrative practice. we promised the citizens. it is in article 41 of the charter. that is the purpose of article 298 of the treaty. it is time we got on with getting this legislation done! i thank mr timmermans here today for so clearly agreeing that we are indeed getting a boost in the work of ensuring good administration in all the eu institutions. let me say that we are putting the principle of service at the centre, where it is the citizens who must be protected, not the officials, and that we are having a real fight against conflicts of interest, that is to say against disability. it is difficult in all our countries - including denmark - to have a proper understanding of what abilities are and to have them respected. i would also like to mention, as mr wałęsa also mentioned, that we naturally want to have good cooperation with the ombudsman and the commission. but we need more resources! i think our resources should match the ombudsman's. not that we're cutting her resources, but we need more. we cannot deal with all our many complaints by simply stifling as many of them as possible, and i think that happens from time to time, i feel, not least from the epp. if we can choke them, we'll get there faster. let me say in conclusion, and it was also mentioned by mr peter jahr, that i think it was a bit shameful that this parliament did not give mr o'reilly a proper welcome. many of the great old countries don't even know what an ombudsman is. they don't have any. the scandinavian countries have it, england has it, ireland has it, the netherlands has it - and fortunately many of the new member states have it too. they have experienced what a real, independent, qualified ombudsman is. so i would like to thank mr wałęsa again for strengthening us in making it work, and i would like to urge the presidency to get together and make sure that we are given a better welcome and that we never again see a president who closes down access to information about who has recommended the ombudsman. it is a barocco, contrary to the whole work of the ombudsman, that members are suddenly protected from standing by those whom they have recommended. so let's have a nice welcome. we have a good ombudsman, we should also have a parliament that can live up to the ombudsman's best standards.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when one hears both the debate which took place at the libe committee meeting this week and the debate which some of the members have in this chamber, one gets the impression that the european parliament is sitting in a cheese-clock where the very sensible arrangements which the governments of the member states want - the very sensible arrangements which a large part of the citizens of europe want - are completely ignored. we are being led to believe in some principles which sound good and which must also be taken into account - namely, the concern not to record too much, the concern about how to record - but we are doing so in such a fundamentalist way that we are continuing to put obstacles in the way of proper anti-terrorist protection in europe. if it continues in this way, then it is clearly my impression that governments should just continue to ignore this parliament. the main point must be to protect european citizens, not to protect the vanity of some members of this parliament who want to block pnrs for whatever reason.
for the ecr group. i am not sure that this is the case. the european parliament has been debating for years whether processed meat should be labelled with the country of origin so that consumers can see where the meat comes from. a survey commissioned by the commission shows that at least 90% of consumers think that labelling processed meat is important, and i think it is important too. this proposal is about trust between consumers and producers. in this connection, we can say that the horse meat scandal also made it clear that there is a real need to have a full picture of where processed meat comes from. traceability, so that a product can be traced from the ground to the table, is a consumer requirement that should always be met. it is the consumer's right to know the full origin, and thus also the country of origin, of the food they buy. of course, the requirement of country of origin labelling will never prevent the fraud that has been perpetrated, but it is part of a chain of requirements to ensure that consumers get the product they pay for and the guilty ones are punished if they cheat! when processed meat is used as an ingredient in a product, it should of course be possible to find information on, for example, the country of origin of what has been purchased. a secondary effect of country of origin labelling may also be that countries will make even greater efforts to meet the high consumer standards and good animal welfare and quality, and that countries that may have a less - what shall i say - better - record of compliance will be punished. just as consumers want to know where a whole chicken or a pig comes from, they naturally want to know where the processed meat comes from. that is why the country of origin of the piece of bacon or the paté or the sausage sold must be known. in addition to the food safety aspect of being able to see where your products come from, this proposal can also help to add value to food producers. consumers want a little story about their food. (the president agreed to answer two blue card questions under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card questions. what are you talking about? i would simply like to say that i fully agree with what mr jørn dohrmann has said, but i would like to know whether he is also in favour of compulsory labelling? the only amendments in his group's motion for a resolution call for voluntary schemes, and one of the amendments even calls for it to be abolished altogether! so it is just to know whether mr dohrmann is speaking on behalf of his whole group or only on behalf of a small part of it.
blue card answer. mr president, we want consumers to be informed about the origin of meat. it is important that consumers feel safe when they shop with their family. and it is clear that when you have experienced a horse meat scandal, well, it shows that there will never be 100% safety. of course, when people want to cheat, they can! no matter how much we feel the flesh all the way around, we can never avoid some people who will cheat. but it is clear that those who cheat must also be punished for it. they don't just walk around when something like this happens. but labelling is a safety for consumers and an information for consumers, and that is what i think we owe them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. at this late stage it is of course difficult to add much new to the debate, but i would like to join the vast majority here tonight who are in favour of labelling where our processed meat comes from. yes, actually, the thing is, i can't even understand why that should be a problem at all. of course, we have a right to know where our processed meat comes from. in a globalised world, in particular, where food is transported through the supply chain across many countries and continents, it can be very difficult for consumers to get an idea of what kind of food they are dealing with. so it is perfectly reasonable to demand to know the country of origin of a foodstuff. we also discussed the horse meat scandal tonight. it was a fraud, but it taught us one thing. it's that a lot of companies don't have control of their supply chains. therefore, a legal requirement to label processed meat where it comes from can help them to get these supply chains under control. yes, it will probably cost a little more, but i wonder if the prices quoted by the industry are a bit exaggerated. mr commissioner, for once try to listen to the consumers. confidence in the eu's internal food market is not as high as it could be. country of origin labelling can help to increase this confidence!
i have to say, madam president, i thank the commissioner for his comments. it's a little strange, this case we're dealing with. one party, the employers, no longer interprets the right to strike as the right of workers to defend their working conditions and their wages. it is a fundamental right and there must be a balance in the social dialogue! otherwise, the law of the strong will prevail. it is important that workers can fight for their jobs, their working conditions and their wages. if i look at denmark, the employers are supporting the ilo's withdrawal from the interpretation of convention 87 that it should be up to the member states to assess whether this right should continue to exist. i don't think that's fair! i don't think that's fair! i don't know what to do. we have a general right in the world that people can fight for their jobs; then it must be up to the member states to assess how this should be done, but it must be a world right to be able to strike and fight for their working conditions. we must of course support other countries in that you can do it as a worker too, that the right to strike must and must be preserved as a central part of convention 87.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, growth and job creation are very high on the agenda for all of us. we would all like to see jobs back in europe. we had a very good discussion on youth unemployment prior to this discussion. i really think that we have an obligation to look into all possibilities for supporting growth and job creation. in this perspective one perhaps minor, but important, thing could be employee financial participation (efp). efp can strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises, offering mechanisms for innovative financing, as workers may wish to invest in shares in the company by which they are employed. despite these possible benefits, the focus on efp varies from member state to member state. this is the reason why i am participating in this very important debate today, because when it comes to employee share ownership and employee financial participation, the commission and parliament – as was mentioned by my colleague from the epp group earlier on – have been doing a lot of talking. we have done studies and have collected information, data and knowledge. now i think it is time to act. i would like to ask the commissioner a very simple question. are you planning to put forward a proposal for an action plan on this issue? at eu level in recent years we have taken a lot of initiatives regarding employee financial participation. we have adopted an opinion on employee financial participation, we have made several studies, we have adopted a resolution, we have completed a pilot project and so on. now i think it is time to act. what concrete measures does the commission intend to take to act on the promotion of employee share ownership? which, if any, of the ideas in the pilot project promoting employee financial participation does the commission actually intend to implement?
blue-card question. – thank you for your contribution. i have just one little question: the occupation. do you agree with me that this is the core of the conflict and that we cannot see a solution for either israel or palestine or all the refugees if we do not do something substantial about the occupation?
for the ecr group. mr president, it is, of course, against a very tragic background that we are discussing the lack of funds for refugee education for palestinian refugees. but in the same context, we must also bear in mind that when the court of auditors last reviewed the way we spent the money in palestine, it came out with a very critical report which fundamentally questioned the extent to which the money was spent in a proper way. that is why it is extremely important for the ecr group - when we discuss how money is given to different organisations, including un organisations - that we control the flow of money, that we control the respect of fundamental european values by those to whom we give the money and that, in general, with the supporting measures we are taking for palestine, we are helping to promote a peace process in which both sides have to bow to each other and in which we are not giving support to extremists on either side.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i do not want to repeat what has been said recently, mr president, but i would just like to add that we should all be aware that the situation in gaza is worse than it has ever been, and that at the same time the refugees in syria, the palestinian refugees in syria, are now under such pressure that they are forced to flee if they do not get real help now. it's gonna be a burden on all of us. so, mr president, now come to us with better promises on how the dramatic hole in unrwa's coffers can be closed so that they can continue the admirable work, because it is admirable, as almost everyone in this chamber has said. we must also state that we are beginning to want to hear that the eu's words matter. as recently as last november, the foreign ministers assured us that they would take responsibility for keeping the desire for a two-state solution alive. and yet, when news of new settlements came again, it was just the usual lament: 'we're sorry!', 'we're alarmed!', 'we're distancing ourselves...!', 'we're shocked!' but no action. they can just be allowed to continue. so something must be done now if the dream of a two-state solution is not to end as a nightmare or simply disappear like a nightmare. let me conclude by saying that we should simply also demand that the palestinians themselves do their job. i am quite clear that hamas is not helpful in this respect and that they should be criticised in their entirety; but the palestinians in ramallah must also deliver. they are completely absent from gaza and from the reconciliation process, which has also come to a standstill. if we are to succeed in overcoming the drama in gaza and the whole situation of having a real palestinian state, the palestinian authorities must come forward, including them, and live up to their obligations.
mr president, i would like to thank the vice-president for a very strong statement on proliferation. nuclear non-proliferation is no longer headline news. for many of my generation and those of younger years it seemed like a problem of the past, conjuring images of a cold war thought long gone. but tensions between nuclear power states are now at their highest point for decades. most pressing is of course the situation in ukraine, where a proxy war is being fought with russian weapons and combatants. east and west are again locked in an icy conflict. whilst our american allies consider weapon deliveries, the european union must press on for de-escalation of conflicts and for non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. current tensions call for renewed trust and perhaps indeed renewed inspections to ensure that current agreements are honoured. the eu must do all it can to ensure that the npt framework does not evolve into another forum for conflict. i urge you therefore to state clearly, on behalf of the european union, that current tensions with russia and the west must not halt, slow or any way impede already agreed reduction targets for nuclear arms.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in the danish people's party we say yes to more road safety. it is therefore also important that those who come to denmark or other countries and break the traffic rules are also punished for their actions. by exchanging information on traffic offences, we also believe that some of the types of people who might want to commit offences might change their minds before they come to the country. we don't want people driving too fast. we do not want them to drive under the influence of drugs, nor do we want them to drive into a traffic jam. that is why it is good that we are working together to ensure that people learn to drive properly and can thus also be punished for their misconduct. that's why we're saying yes. that's why i said yes.
in writing. — together with the greens/efa group, i voted today against the joint motion for a resolution on anti-terrorism measures, as the resolution is sending the wrong message at the wrong time. the resolution agreed by the big four political groups provides a carte blanche for eu governments to scale-back personal freedoms with measures that will fail to properly respond to the terrorist threat. instead of pushing for effective measures, the usual suspects who have been continually pushing for mass surveillance and data retention are using the paris attacks as an excuse to bulldoze through these measures, despite any evidence that they will prove effective in countering the terrorist threat. a coherent counter-terrorism strategy would focus on targeted surveillance of real suspects and ensuring security authorities have the means and resources to focus on specific risks and concrete suspicions, to follow any leads immediately, and to efficiently exchange information about dangerous individuals. this is what we should be trying to achieve. there is also a need to tackle radicalisation in schools and prisons. finally we are missing a call for a legal definition of profiling. stepping up mass surveillance will undermine security and is instead a victory for fundamentalists, who are combatting precisely such democratic freedoms.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted for this labelling of meat, and i think it is a good thing, and it is for the sake of consumers. traceability, so that the goods can be traced from the ground to the ship, is a consumer requirement and should always be followed. it is the consumer's right to know the full origin and thus also the country of origin of the food they buy. of course, a requirement to mark the country of origin will never be sufficient to prevent fraud. it is one link in a chain of requirements to ensure that consumers get the product for which they pay. a secondary effect of country of origin labelling may also be that the country or countries will make even greater efforts to meet a high standard of consumer requirements and ensure good animal welfare and quality in those countries and ensure that those who do not meet this may not be the ones supplying the food in the future. the consumer must be in the middle, and that is why we have agreed to this.
in writing. balance is important when new rules are adopted. it is possible that labelling the country of origin of meat in processed foods will have some positive effects, but the proposal could also lead to more bureaucracy and increased costs for the food industry and thus less competitiveness, higher consumer prices and, not least, job losses.
in writing. we are in favour of consumers being given real information about the food they buy. we therefore also believe that it is important to be able to affix the country of origin marking to meat in processed products. we are not, of course, seeking to impose unnecessary and costly rules on businesses, but we are sure that it can easily be made flexible and easy to work with rules on the origin of meat. for example, stickers may be used instead of fixed packaging labelling. the information on the origin of the meat is already available to the companies. we are simply supporting the idea that consumers should also have this knowledge. that is why we support the decision to mark the country of origin of meat in processed products and we will of course work to make these rules as simple and as cheap as possible to comply with.
in writing. we are in favour of consumers being given real information about the food they buy. we therefore also believe that it is important to be able to affix the country of origin marking to meat in processed products. we are not, of course, seeking to impose unnecessary and costly rules on businesses, but we are sure that it can easily be made flexible and easy to work with rules on the origin of meat. for example, stickers may be used instead of fixed packaging labelling. the information on the origin of the meat is already available to the companies. we are simply supporting the idea that consumers should also have this knowledge. that is why we support the decision to mark the country of origin of meat in processed products and we will of course work to make these rules as simple and as cheap as possible to comply with.
mr president, by all accounts the international community, or at the very least the western powers, are closing up shop in yemen. today the american embassy officially closed in sana’a. the british embassy has followed suit and a few hours ago the french embassy also announced that it would close for security reasons. it is a well-known fact that yemen has been a hotbed of insurgency and terrorist training for many years but now events are coming to a crescendo. the houthi have taken the capital and effectively it is a coup d’état. al-qaeda in the arabian peninsula remains as active as ever throughout yemen. yemen is truly revealed to be not only a failed state, but a failed state with no one to turn to except perhaps iran, saudi arabia or al-qaeda, depending on which partisan group wins the ongoing power battle. the european union must stand ready to take up even greater responsibilities in the yemen crisis. a closed embassy always leaves a vacuum in its place – a vacuum for the european union, and we must do what we can to fill it. i therefore ask both the commission and the council what concrete steps will be taken in the eu to put pressure on the houthi and to help guide the yemeni people towards a path of political stability? what initiative will be enacted to ensure that yemen does not sink further into civil partisan warfare?
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the presidency and mr timmermann for the explanations we have received here today. we have seen one tragedy after another in the mediterranean off the coast of africa in recent months, so i very much agree with the commission's comments that we have to look at how frontex operates and should operate in the future. i also agree with the presidency when it says that we must be more reactive to the flows of integration. there is therefore a need to strengthen cooperation, particularly with third countries. in addition, there are organized human traffickers who funnel money into people's misery. that is why my point today, which i would like to make clear to the commissioner, is that we need larger budgets both for frontex, where we have to look at both budgets and powers, and also to a large extent for europol. i think that has been forgotten in this debate: we must try to stand together in europol to break the rings of human smugglers. is that something the commissioner agrees with?
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are faced here with a situation where the market is clearly broken down and it is regrettable to hear colleagues say that the market is more important than human life. we are facing an industry which has been so crude in exploiting a patent system which does not protect human life. this product, which is used to treat hepatitis c, costs eur 100 to produce. the cost of treatment is eur 50 000. gilead, the company that makes it, makes $2 billion a month! we must recognize that we must now create a common system. there are differences between countries, yes, but we need full transparency so that we can see what it costs. we must make it clear that up to 50% of research and development expenditure comes from the public sector. first we pay them, then we give it all away, and then they rob us. we have to do this in a different way, and i am very pleased that a moral patent case has been brought against this product because it is simply immoral. it is outrageous that a patent should kill!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all let me congratulate vice-president šefčovič on this huge and competent work taking place; congratulations on all the hard work. let me then touch upon some key issues to be addressed in the coming months. on governance: it is clear that our security depends on all member states working together and living up to their obligations. we would like to see the commission in an even stronger position in this process because we need more ambitious european governance on this issue. we need a truly european energy policy instead of having 28 widely differing policies on this important issue. we, for our part, would like to push even further when it comes to energy efficiency and renewables. this goes hand in hand with strengthening our security and at the same time increasing competitiveness for european companies. we have seen that it works. just this week apple announced a huge investment in my own country, denmark, primarily because of its renewable energy. companies like this invest in places where waste heat from a data centre can be reused as a source of heating for homes through district heating technologies. so, this is not just good for the environment and the energy security; it is also sound business sense and practice. there are a lot of companies out there that save money for consumers and create jobs and growth in europe. i invite the commission to engage with companies like these and see how to find the best solutions for tomorrow’s challenges and to communicate these opportunities to citizens as well as to businesses. finally, on investment and financing: we have to ensure that the juncker plan delivers. private finance is out there; there are projects that desperately need funding; it is up to us to make sure that the juncker plan works and helps to join all these dots. with these words, once again: congratulations, mr šefčovič. i look forward to working closely with you to fulfil all these visions in an energy union.
mr president, the energy union can and should become the main driver in transitioning europe from a fossil-fuel-powered past to a future built on sustainable, renewable energy sources and smart energy efficiency. the europe of tomorrow must become completely independent of russian gas and oil from the middle east. to realise this goal we need concrete action and strong legislation with this parliament. we also need a focus on two key areas: we need a strong strategy for shifting from gas to electricity as a main energy source for space heating in europe, and we need a frontal attack on the energy bottlenecks that can be found throughout europe, which are hampering the single market. these areas are crucial to ensuring that renewables such as wind and solar become fully integrated into the european energy mix. i therefore ask you, mr vice-president: how will the commission ensure that we move from gas to electricity for heating, and what new powers will be given to acer to address the problem of energy bottlenecks so that we can create a real green energy union for the citizens of europe?
mr president, i would like to thank you. when i read this report, it strikes me that it does exactly what the member states are accused of doing, namely discriminating! it is very clear that what has been done so far is an attempt to set guidelines for the whole of europe, and it is completely wrong. the fact is that the reality is as different as the member states. it should now be recognised that it was better to let the member states decide for themselves where they want to go in terms of equality. because in reality the european countries have a very fine tradition of creating equal rights for both sexes. the change of a culture is through the human being himself, and it doesn't change just because someone says it should. instead, look beyond europe to the poor parts of the world where women are still excluded from the education system and the labour market, where women's bodies are used as weapons of terror and war, to places where female genital mutilation and violence against women are completely accepted by the surrounding societies. this is where the greatest concern should lie. i recognise that violence against women is still a problem which we must work hard to bring to life on a global scale. but i am free of more legislation on mandatory gender quotas, on the lack of education for women and this kind of rhetoric which in my view is helping to manufacture and degrade...
the commission is not i have looked forward to this debate, mr president, and it is good that, although the time is a little short, we are able to achieve everything on the agenda. competition policy is an extremely important element of the internal market. it is like the rules of the road: if there is no agreement on when to respect a red light, when to drive, etc., then there is total chaos. that is why it is of course also a pleasure to be able to work with the danish commissioner, margrethe vestager, on competition policy. however, it has been just as much a pleasure to work with the rapporteurs from the various groups and i am very pleased with the compromise reached in committee, which i am sure will also be voted on tomorrow in the house. there are a number of new elements which we have not seen before in parliament's own-initiative reports on competition policy, and i would like to highlight them here in my introductory remarks. first of all, that the european parliament now takes seriously the challenges of social dumping in the real world. and not just take them seriously, so that they are mentioned a little bit in the various committees and commissions around this house, but that it becomes a horizontal approach, so that whatever kind of policy we are talking about - for example, today with competition policy - it is included as a natural element. we are currently experiencing, for example, in the field of aviation, how in several, if not all, eu countries we are being challenged violently, how wage earners are being pushed to the extreme and sometimes beyond what is acceptable. i am glad that in such a sensitive area we have been able to find a formulation that all groups can live with, and i expect that will also be the case tomorrow. another element which has not been dealt with before, of course, since it did not exist before, is what has become popular: luxleaks. the whole question of how certain member states have used tax policy to attract companies and thus tax crowns. it is important for me as rapporteur to stress that this is a very important issue, but it is also a subject which can be dealt with in competition policy, which must be dealt with in competition policy! when we vote tomorrow, i know that this is something that may divide the house a little: are we going to use this as a lever for a common harmonised tax policy, as some groups want, or is this something that we can deal with within the state aid rules? in my optics, it's the last one. i think it is clear that it is a breach of the state aid rules to use your tax policy to discriminate against competing companies. a third element which is important to mention and which i believe plays a major role in many of our countries also in the election campaign is the question of how we use the structural funds. when companies receive eu aid, it should be to improve the conditions in which they are located, not to move jobs. i am pleased that all these elements have been addressed in this report, and i am pleased that many of the areas where citizens are expecting more proactive action from a wide range of citizens have also been clarified in relation to the need to implement the third energy liberalisation directive, otherwise there is no point in talking about an energy union and the benefits that lie within it at all, within the economic potential that is being built up in a digital single market. in this connection, i would also like to thank kaja kallas very much for the enormous contribution she and imco have made to this report. and now that we're on the digital side, it's clear that there's one particular digital player that's played a very special role: google. i would like to thank everyone, not least ramon tremosa of balcells, for his constructive approach to this very issue and i am glad that a compromise has been reached. and i would like to stress one thing: in this report, google is not the accuser. what we are concerned about is that we have now negotiated or have seen negotiations run for four years, that we have seen the commission come up with one challenge after another and that the matter is still not resolved. so what is really on the table here is the commission's confidence, whether it can still be trusted to handle these kinds of cases within a reasonable time and in a proper way. all of this, which i hope we can put an end to tomorrow and which we welcome with a large majority, is contained in this report.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a very, very interesting report. competition policy is one of the eu's most important areas. it is central to european cooperation, it is central to the new commission, not least because of the commissioner responsible for this area, margrethe vestager. as mentioned earlier, competition policy is one of the many areas where eu cooperation brings positive and visible benefits to individual citizens, to all of us. it is therefore also very positive that the rapporteur so clearly states in this report that the commission must have more powers in relation to the member states, and it is positive that the rapporteur emphasizes that the commission must have the financial resources necessary to be able to carry out these very central and essential tasks. and i am very pleased that the rapporteur is stressing the important role of the european parliament and even that the european parliament should have even more powers. it is quite clear in paragraph 104 of the report that this democratic deficit cannot and must not be tolerated. i'd like to sign for that. so when the rapporteur argues that the commission should have more powers vis-à-vis the member states, that the commission should have more resources, and that the european parliament should have more powers, i fully agree, because all of this is more europe, not less europe. we must therefore accept that this is a far cry from the rapporteur's previous views on european cooperation. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this very positive report, which i look forward to voting in favour of together with - i think - the whole of parliament. i congratulate you on your report, mr rapporteur. it's good to see.
i have to say, madam president, - i'm not going to lie to you. free and fair competition is essential if we as consumers are to get the best products at the cheapest price. this is particularly true in the mobile and telecommunications markets. so let me begin by thanking you for your clear statement in an article in the financial times about the wave of telecommunications mergers facing europe. the commission states that low prices for consumers are the alpha and omega when it comes to assessing whether mergers can be accepted by the commission. in denmark two telecommunications companies have joined forces in marriage, and i know that their application is on the commissioner's desk at the moment. i would therefore ask the commissioner what market share the commission thinks two firms can have before a duopoly-like situation occurs. and how will the commissioner ensure that the merger of the two companies does not lead to less competition and higher prices for consumers? i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr morten messerschmidt, for an interesting report, and i am surprised, as are many others, by the very pro-european tone of the report, particularly by the rapporteur's desire for greater power for the european parliament. a european parliament which the rapporteur, mr morten messerschmidt, has previously argued strongly for abolishing! the link between these two is open to debate, but i thank mr morten messerschmidt for his excellent report.
the commission is not i would like to thank the president-in-office. i am grateful for the many comments during the debate, most of them political, a few polemical, which i of course appreciate. actually, let me just answer the controversy first. the first is that we have not been part of the negotiations and therefore do not know the content of the reports that have been produced. that's fair enough! i am speaking to my two danish colleagues, but at least you could have taken the trouble to find out who is proposing which amendments. well, that's the way it is! i am not sure that the commissioner will be able to give me an answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give me an answer to this question. i have not seen any work of that kind in progress. i would like to say a few words about the political content of this debate, because i think that most of the comments have been friendly, welcoming and in the spirit of the discussions that have taken place here. and i am pleased about that, and i am pleased about the content of the report on which we have reached agreement, which raises a number of important points which are critical but also constructive. for example, i do not recall any report from this house having spoken in such detail about what is needed to build a digital single market. what is it that we need in terms of rules on privacy, e-payments, interoperability, etc. it is something that points forward, hopefully with a growth perspective, but it is first and foremost something that points to you, madam commissioner. we expect an initiative in this area and in all the other areas which this report seeks to raise. it is about trust, and it is about commitment. in that spirit, i am confident that we will be able to conclude this work in a good and constructive way tomorrow. not in the way - and i say this to tibor szanyi - that we all necessarily love the compromise that is there, but in the way that we can all live with it and work together with the commissioner, civil society and everyone else.
blue card questions. what are you talking about? madam president, i would just like to ask julie girling if she is not aware that the study that catherine day started was all about what industry would pay, and now we have the same figures as recently as today from le monde which say that we are at 1.27% of the eu's gdp, which is due to damage from endocrine disrupting substances. it is rather bold to say that we have adverbs when what we have is the conflict between the interests of industry and the health of the people. the economy is much harder on society when it is the health of people than when it is the suffering of industries.
mr president, i would like to thank you. and thank you, commissioner, for your answer. i choose to trust the promise that health will not be compromised. we have now documented that these hormone-disrupting drugs damage the brain development of unborn children. it causes infertility in young boys, and there are a number of other very serious consequences, and we also now know the costs to society. they were mentioned here the other day, on 5 march, and i mentioned earlier that the figure of about eur 150 billion appeared today in le monde. what we now have to ask the commission is: 'yes, i cannot ask for the phasing out of catherine day, i could have wished for that, but she asked, since she had become the lobbyist of the agrochemical industry and the rest of the chemical industry, that only the costs to industry be examined. so now we have to have a commission that can pack her far away - not in plastic, because it is also full of endocrine disruptors, so no more plastic there - but make sure that we now look like a good commission that actually also wants the environment and wants health and can look at the real costs to society and include these consequences when we now have to make an impact analysis, and not just the agro-industrial complex's concerns. it's in the water. it's everywhere. we need a commission that dares to do something now and not just say small on small things. we don't need that here.
mr president, i would like to thank you. every day that the commission hesitates and fails to act against the chemical that is in place, it simply costs the health of citizens, and it is our children in particular who are exposed. it also costs our environment, and it costs a lot of money. so this is completely unacceptable. we're not talking about anything new. we are talking about a matter we have discussed for years and on which we have had a great deal of knowledge. i think the commission should start listening to the citizens a little more instead of just listening to industry. yes, it is complex. there is no doubt about that, but i think we have to think and apply the precautionary principle and at least start by removing those substances from our everyday products which are suspected of being hormone disruptors. we have to think about what is in the best interest of the citizens here. the citizens simply cannot understand that we have not acted yet and, to be honest, neither can i.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, as the s&d shadow on this report, my main objective was to ensure that we created a type of fund that would benefit the real economy and i think we actually achieved that. the long economic crisis and huge investment gap in europe shows that there is a great need for investment to ensure growth, employment and an improved economy. for that reason, mr juncker presented an investment plan, and the european long-term investment fund (eltif) was part of that much—needed plan to get europe back on track. what these funds can do is function as an investment vehicle that can contribute to the financing of the real economy in the eu. this is useful, for example, for insurance companies and pension funds which need a pooling mechanism to facilitate the financing of long—term investments. the eltif will give them that. the aim is that the eltif will contribute to financing smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in europe. that is essential because we need a europe that is economically stable to once again experience investment and growth. my hope is that the eltif will be used by many to help facilitate investment but, most of all, my hope is that the eltif will be much used for green and sustainable investment that will not only contribute to growth but also have a positive impact socially, environmentally and economically for europe as a whole. we need a europe that takes the lead on investment in the green and sustainable economy to ensure that we move forward. we need green growth to ensure that we do not just pass the environmental bill to the next generation. we need investment that will benefit every europe citizen for years to come. so i will encourage all – both professional investors and retail investors – to use this important new instrument.
in writing. ‒ denmark does not participate in eu judicial cooperation and is therefore not directly affected by policies concerning residence permits and asylum. we recognize that other member states have the right to deal with policies which have to do with these issues, but as the issue is not directly relevant to danish rules, we refrain from taking a position on the points which concern these areas.
in writing. ‒ denmark does not participate in eu judicial cooperation and is therefore not directly affected by policies on residence and asylum. we therefore refrain from commenting on the points concerning these areas, recognising the right of other member states to deal with them, but at the same time stressing that the issues are not directly relevant to danish rules.
in writing. ‒ the report by mr morten messerschmidt contains a number of ambiguous proposals which can be interpreted in the east or the west, depending on the political position. for example, the morten messerschmidt report proposes that 'tax harmonisation measures should be introduced', but it never explains what they should be. is it, for example, a common corporate tax base? in that case, we're in. but if it is a genuine common corporate tax or a common reduction in corporate tax in the eu, we are clearly against it. we will not be a party to opening a loading dock to all sorts of tax harmonization proposals from the commission. the report also states that competition policy must not be used to enable taxation to be imposed. again, the report is inaccurate. the luxleaks case is being investigated precisely on the basis of competition policy. the proposal can therefore be read as meaning that, in the light of commissioner vestager's inquiry, no action against tax evasion can be proposed. we are against that. in such important areas as competition policy and the fight against tax evasion, we want very clear lines. there must be no doubt about what is voted yes or no. the danish social democrats in the european parliament have therefore chosen to vote neither yes nor no on these ambiguous proposals, and we call for their proposals to be presented clearly and unambiguously in future.
mr. chairman, please. i would like to thank mr juncker. is the eu to be a strong and independent voice, or are we to be under pressure because of our energy dependence? for europe is already under pressure from a russia with a heavy hand on the gas handle to europe. a russia that does not hesitate to send tanks and soldiers across the border to its european neighbours. we need to get rid of that pressure. that is why we need a green climate and energy union. there must be a massive investment in energy efficiency, renewable energy and co2 reductions. the energy union is the key to a europe free from russian pressure, free from dependence on fossil fuels, but the commission has yet to come up with concrete answers. answer what it means to be the world leader in renewable energy, as juncker promised we would be. when will we have a clear and comprehensive strategy for a strong russia, including energy, security, foreign and trade policy, and preferably in cooperation with nato, the world's strongest defence alliance, rather than creating our own european army?
madam chairman! the danish people's party and i voted against the fernández report, and i think that if you had asked the europeans, it would have been a big, resounding and clear no. why would you do that? yes, not because we are against the fine intentions of employment, entrepreneurship and such things, but because the only answer, when you have to create it from this house, is more budgets, own resources. you'll be allowed to collect your own taxes. despite the fact that there is hardly a european institution, a european political assembly, which has less popular legitimacy than the eu, there is now an insistence on introducing the instrument which is probably the most intimidating for the citizen, namely the possibility of withdrawing tax crowns - or in your case, tax euros - from the pockets of the citizens themselves. it is not only undemocratic, it is also fundamentally unfriendly, and that is the overall aim of this whole report, and all the fine words about growth and jobs can otherwise be put on the back burner. so, a firm no from here.
in writing. ‒ we are in favour of an efficient and responsible use of eu funds, and we are in favour of a better use and prioritisation of eu funds within the existing framework. we are working to create growth, jobs and decent wages in the eu. we also support investments in, among other things, the green transition, research and infrastructure. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. we chose to support the green amendment on this point rather than the gue/ngl amendment, because the green amendment is more constructive and calls for funding in other ways rather than simply condemning the reallocation of funds.
in writing. ‒ we are in favour of an efficient and responsible use of eu funds, and we are in favour of a better use and prioritisation of eu funds within the existing framework. we are working to create growth, jobs and decent wages in the eu. we also support investments in, among other things, the green transition, research and infrastructure. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. we chose to support the green amendment on this point rather than the gue/ngl amendment, because the green amendment is more constructive and calls for funding in other ways rather than simply condemning the reallocation of funds.
madam chairman! it is very rare that i would actually encourage citizens to read the reports issued by the various eu institutions and agencies and so on. but if one institution is to be attacked, it is the court of auditors. when we talk about the fight against fraud and fraud with eu money, nothing is more obvious. it is absolutely shocking how little control there is over eu money when it is handled by a number of - if not all - eu member states. but what is even more shocking is that the commission is powerless to change its policy, powerless to ensure that there is at least the same discipline with eu money - that is, citizens' money, managed through the eu - as there is with citizens' money, when it is managed through their own countries. completely ridiculous projects from grandmothers who have to bake cakes over donkeys traveling around europe. everything to create some kind of common sense in europe is financed by these projects, and it's not even the illegal stuff. no, the illegal is even worse, where the mafia itself has the money, has its hands down in the cash register and pulls billions up because the eu has no control over it. this is horrible!
madam chairman! i voted against this report. it is not because i disagree with the figures as such or think that the content can be discussed as such, but because the perspective is completely wrong. it completely ignores the fact that growth in the world is significantly higher than it is in europe. growth in europe is significantly higher than it is in the eu, and growth in the eu is significantly higher than it is in the eurozone. so there is something terribly wrong with the eurozone. the european union will not emerge from recession until it gives up the foolish idea that it can maintain a common currency with such different economies. there is only one way to save it: either to abandon democracy so that the greeks and germans and what have i done can no longer choose their own fiscal policy or to convince the northern europeans that they must finance the southern europeans forever. neither of those things are going to happen. that is why the whole project should be scrapped, and only then can we see growth again in europe.
in writing. ‒ the commission is already very active in ensuring and enforcing the free movement of persons, services and capital. although the right of free movement is one of the cornerstones of european cooperation, it must be stressed that it is sometimes necessary to balance this with other considerations. today, member states have the possibility to take appropriate measures to enforce the conditions of employment and labour which apply in individual labour markets. that is how it will be in the future. similarly, each member state is free to ensure that social security schemes are not abused.
in writing. ‒ as the recitals in this report show, the determination of wages is a matter for the member states. a european minimum wage is not in line with the danish labour market model and we are therefore critical of any measures and calls which could potentially promote eu influence on wage setting in denmark.
in writing. ‒ as the recitals in this report show, the determination of wages is a matter for the member states. a european minimum wage is not in line with the danish labour market model and we are therefore critical of any measures and calls which could potentially promote eu influence on wage setting in denmark.
madam chairman! in the text we are adopting tomorrow, we mention russia 22 times. we mention their illegal annexation of crimea, their aggressive behaviour, our sanctions and our energy dependence on them. i would also like to mention the provocative flights that russian military aircraft are making very close to, for example, danish and swedish airspace, which also endanger civil aviation. when we are in this room again in a year's time and talking about the achievements of a joint foreign service, we should have a comprehensive strategy for russia. a strategy that integrates security, foreign, trade and energy policies. a strategy that condemns the dangerous russian provocation flights. a strategy that clearly defines the roles and responsibilities of the eu, its member states and nato, for example, as the world's most powerful military defence organisation. a strategy in which we coordinate with the other international partners in the un, the osce, the council of europe and so on. in short, we must have a strategy in which we all come together to confront russia and ensure that we can be secure in europe in the future too.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it sounds very good that you want to create jobs and include social aspects in your policy. but fundamentally, this report contains a number of areas in which the member states must give up new sovereignty, including - and i would say most seriously - pay policy. it's a direct wording. we need what is called the european minimum wage framework. i don't think that's something that many people want. for example, in denmark we have a model where it is the social partners and the employee and the employer who negotiate wages. we do not need legislation on this, let alone legislation from the eu. i would ask the institutions to keep their fingers far, far away from this area! that is why i voted against this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the report is a good example of the need to ensure that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are respected. or is it just natural? i believe that the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality have been violated for years. it is therefore good that the commission is now placing greater emphasis on consulting the national parliaments, which have actually been given the power to examine whether the rules have been complied with in the treaty of lisbon. this is not happening enough today, and that is why we have seen eu legislation meddling in all kinds of details - i would say ridiculous details at times - which should be left to the member states to regulate themselves. it is time we went the other way so that the member states can take back their sovereignty, and that can be done by, among other things, spending much more on focusing on the principle of subsidiarity. so i welcome, if not all parts of this report, at least those passages which go in that direction.
mr president, i would like to underline the fact that germany is, of course, fully within its rights in adopting a minimum wage. the minimum wage itself is not the problem. the problem is that with the minimum wage come piles of bureaucracy which are creating a wall around germany for foreign workers, and this is not in compliance with the single market act. i do not understand how germany can decide what the wage should be in different countries. according to the treaty, germany does not have the competence to do this. some people are claiming that the german application of the minimum wage is one of the most serious attacks on the single market since the adoption of the single market act. these protectionist measures create barriers all the way down through europe. this is very serious and very worrying. it is the commission’s responsibility to protect the single market. from what i have heard so far, i am not convinced that the commission is fulfilling its responsibilities in this regard. having said that, i notice commissioner bulc stated that national implementation of the various laws should comply with the different aspects of the eu legislation. therefore, i have a very simple question to the commission: will the commissioner give this house a guarantee today that it will do whatever it takes to protect a smoothly functioning european single market? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer.– coming from a country where the social partners actually do the collective bargaining, i am not against a minimum wage, but it is up to the partners to decide what the level should be. i do not think germany can decide what the level for danish workers working in germany should be. as i see it, this is not an issue that germany can decide and, from my understanding of the european legal framework, germany does not have the competence to decide on things like that.
mr. chairman, please. for the danish people's party there is no doubt about what the core of this problem is. the core of this problem for us is the right to national self-determination. we believe that the different pay and working conditions, and the way in which the welfare state is to be set up, are a matter for the national authorities and that the european union should not interfere in them, either directly or indirectly. the right to organise one's national labour market also includes the right to ensure that everyone is playing by the rules if one wants to be an employee in another member state. we therefore believe in principle that the germans have the right to introduce a minimum wage. it is always possible to debate whether the control mechanisms are the right ones, but one also has the right to have such control mechanisms, and there is no doubt in my mind that the essence of sound european cooperation is to respect the sovereign rights that the nation states should have in cooperation.
mr. chairman, please. i very much agree with what has just been said. but now that almost all western countries have taken measures to improve conditions in the transport sector, it could well be that there was something wrong with the rules that work at european level. there is not a single country that knows how to govern by the rules. what is a carbotaging run? what is a p.o. box company? and so on and so forth. no one can answer that. so perhaps it was time for the commission to come up with a proposal on how to make common rules that can be administered in a way that we have fair competition between countries. there is no doubt in my mind that the intentions of european legislation are that if you want to do business in another country and you want to be a worker in another country, you have to work under the conditions that apply in that country. there is no question about that. that is what the treaty says. but let us have some common rules that can be administered so that we can have a fair transport industry again.
i have to say, madam president, i am glad that we can vote on two important pieces of legislation this week. i am glad that we have completed the multiannual management plan for the baltic sea fairly quickly. we must now look ahead to the preparation of the new technical measures, new disposal plans and new management plans. we must do better in this respect by involving the regional advisory bodies and we must ensure that fishermen are given as much responsibility and freedom as possible in the choice of gear. when we have fisheries subject to the landing obligation and thus fully documented fisheries, fishermen have every reason to be as selective as possible. that is why we should give them responsibility instead of regulating them in detail. i hope that this will be reflected even more clearly in the future management plans and in the rules on technical measures and on discarding. i congratulate the rapporteur on the fine and rapid work he has done.
the commission is not mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. it is a great day today because we are going to pass this motion. we are faced with a truly massive environmental problem: 100 billion of these lightweight plastic carrier bags are used every year in the eu, and 8 billion of them end up directly in nature as waste, if not more. we have the figures from the commission, and this is something which is really harmful to nature and to the oceans: to people, to animals, to fish and to birds. there's only one thing to do about it, and that's to reduce the numbers. we have now succeeded in achieving what is actually number one in the eu waste hierarchy, namely prevention. this is the first time we have passed a law containing prevention! the commission's studies show that 70% of the public supports us taking action. it was therefore a real pity when the commission's proposal finally came. it was the previous commission, but on this point it was not much better than the one we have now. it was a miserable proposal that we received, which contained nothing but pious wishes. fortunately, parliament acted. i should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues for their excellent cooperation, firstly gerben-jan gerbrandy, who was with us all the way, and secondly la via. we actually passed a very good proposal. it was the council's turn, and i should like to thank the italian presidency. they succeeded in keeping the council together by an excellent effort, so that we are actually now faced with a common proposal. in short, it is a matter of reducing consumption, either by what i would recommend, that countries agree to put a price on these bags. if you do that in 2018, the reduction will be achieved quickly. ireland is a shining example of putting a price on plastic bags and within 5 months they achieved a 90% reduction. i have just heard that portugal is doing something similar. if you do not choose that solution, you can go after the reduction targets. that means going down to 90 bags per capita in 2019 and down to 40 per capita in 2025 - which is a good result. in the course of this process the commission has been a pain in the ass! (i apologize to one of my good friends from the commission sitting here). it's been working against us all along. it has invented all sorts of irrelevant objections to do nothing! it basically believes that it is up to the countries themselves to do something - but they do not. that's why we've gotten so much support for it. despite the effectiveness of these proposals, despite the huge economic gain - eur 740 million a year - we are saving again, according to the commission's own calculations. in addition to what nature saves, what the oceans save, we also save a lot of money! nevertheless, we had problems with the commission right up to the finish line. i shall soon forget the look on timmermans' face when he had to announce that the commission had decided not to withdraw the proposal. let me say at the end that in the time i have been standing here speaking, in the four minutes alone, 750,000 plastic bags have been used in europe. if you cannot see anything else, at least you can see that something must be done. we'll get to that. i would like to thank again all the good people in this house and in the member states who have helped, and i hope that the commission will also agree that it would be good to do something about it. it's a win, win, win situation.
blue-card question.– here we have had an illustration of what the problem was with oxo—degradable plastics. symphony is a uk firm and we wanted to keep the council together. that was why we did not go down the direct route, despite having proof that oxo—degradable is worse than nothing. now, at least, we have the commission investigating this. i would ask my colleague whether he is in favour of a clear investigation and, if it shows that oxo—degradable is worse and the plastics industry is against it, whether he will then – as i hope – support us to get rid of it?
rapporteur.– madam president, i very much hope that this will be our first victory over those in the commission who are against the environment. i hope it will not be the last, although we might fear that, but this here should be our first. it is a historic day as we managed to get so much support from this parliament and the member states in order to bring about a clear reduction. flexibility is still built into it, although it is not as flexible as originally proposed by the commission, which was the kind of flexibility where they did nothing but just hoped. i am strongly in favour of hope – i am a christian – but i think sometimes that we need to do something. we are here not to hope but to do. that is what we will do now. i am so happy that you promise to live up to the expectations in our proposal in order to achieve good figures. for instance, i think the figures from denmark are far too optimistic. just two days ago i had to decline five of these lightweight plastic bags which were just handed out to me. so i think the actual figures are much more than four annually per inhabitant, but they are still good figures and there is flexibility. again let me repeat here that we are not talking about a ban, because plastic bags can be reusable. we are talking about a reduction and if you put a price – not a tax, but a price – on each bag we know that the consumers will ask themselves whether they really need to pay 50 cents or whatever it might be and they might remember that they have pockets or bring their own bag with them. they might have a reusable plastic bag or a cotton bag. they are not that idiotic. it is good if they get into new habits. we have seen it. i would like to thank everybody. this is historic. let it not be the last victory for the environment in this commission, but the first one.
madam chairman! maritime transport, as has been said here today, is not part of the eu's commitment to reduce co2 emissions, and this despite the fact that shipping and its emissions have actually increased a lot. it is extremely important, i think, that we ensure that shipping as an industry also contributes to our climate policy. it is important that we make an effort to get shipping companies to invest in energy-efficient ships also for the sake of climate policy. that is why it is good that we are voting today, because with the new eu system for monitoring and reporting and verifying co2 emissions from ships calling at european ports, we have a system that will be able to give us some good data. with this data we will in the long run be able to get a better picture of how much the sector emits and hopefully in the long run we can also tighten the rules on how much we allow them to emit. it is also important for me to say that it is gratifying that in this work we have not only looked at the size of the ships but also at the amount of cargo they carry. of course, it also has an impact on co2 emissions. but it's only one step. it is a step in the right direction, but it is still only one step. we must work to create global standards for the entire shipping sector and to establish global emissions standards so that we can reduce co2 emissions.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament adopted today a law which means that first generation biofuels must account for a maximum of 7% of transport fuel consumption by 2020. in future, 0.5% of transport fuel will have to come from second generation biofuels, but unfortunately the latter is not a binding target. it is a disappointing result for denmark and especially for maabjerg, and it is disconcerting that there is no greater willingness among the member states to set ambitious targets. but little is better than nothing, and to vote against it would be an empty demonstration. the ambitions have been curtailed in the negotiations with the council. parliament's initial proposal included a cap on first generation biofuels of 6% and a binding target for second generation biofuels of 2.5% by 2020. i am voting for it because the alternative is worse, but unfortunately it is far from the approach adopted by parliament. unfortunately, parliament has been depriving itself of influence in the last period, when the conservative group refused to give a mandate to the rapporteur because she was a leftist. thus the best was made the worst enemy of the good.
in writing. ‒ we certainly need better coordination of our policy for forests because a number of eu policies such as energy, environment and climate have an impact on the management of forests. forests employ over 3.5 million people in europe, so they are the third-largest eu employer behind the metal and food industries; better coordination means that a coherent approach between the national strategies should be found. forests could also become a part of the energy solution. although a new strategy is welcome we should avoid any centralisation, that is why any attempt to make forestry a matter of eu policy should be resisted: the competence of member states in this area must be respected. the urbanisation of our society is leading to a gradual loss of knowledge about forests; that is why we should integrate this issue in the classrooms, encouraging closing the gap between towns and forests.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, i find it incredible that this proposal is still circulating. the fact is that 11 member states have shown a yellow card because the national parliaments believe that this is a breach of the principle of subsidiarity and that it is going too far. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. others point out that the proposal is not in line with the rule of law. so it must be remembered that we are not just talking about cooperation between the prosecutors of the countries. - i know. we are talking about a genuine european public prosecutor who alone should be able to prosecute. that is why i fully support the criticism of the national parliaments. the eu should not, of course, have its own prosecutor's office, which could bypass national prosecutors' offices. that is why the commission's proposal must not only be given the yellow card, but rejected outright.
the commission is not mr president, thank you to the court of auditors, which is why we are all working overtime here tonight with 52 reports. i have the pleasure of being the shadow rapporteur for some of them for the ecr, and i have two reports of my own. so i have a lot of catching up to do, and i hope you'll forgive me. first of all, i should like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for the great work they have done on the commission report. i think it heralds a new and more objective way of assessing where there are problems in the commission's accounting. we in the ecr group are very pleased that the line which the rapporteur had put in the report also became the line which went through the committee on budgetary control. we hope that this will also be the line that will be taken by parliament when we vote tomorrow. as regards the european parliament's own accounts, i would like to thank you for the constructive dialogue that has been held on the areas that could be attacked or considered problematic. we in the ecr group are pleased that many of the inputs we have made are included in the report we are voting on tomorrow. here too we hope that the problem areas will survive tomorrow's vote, so that we can show that budgetary control is something we take seriously, even when it is within our own house. i would like to thank all those involved for their cooperation in relation to my two presidencies. as regards the one, sesar, there are no major comments or problems. i personally agree with the group in this parliament that they should be given discharge. as regards the second, iter, i could have wished for a slightly better negotiation process in the light of the way the process has been handled. i am pleased with the support that the s&d group and the alde group have chosen to give to my position in the report, and i still hope that the ppe group will tomorrow choose to look at the guarantees and explanations given in relation to iter. i would also like to say, as a side note, that i think that some people in this parliament have made a very political assessment of the fact that we are actually talking about budgetary control, for example in the case of iter. i think there has been a certain inconsistency in how you evaluate the things you may not like politically very much compared to the things you are politically supportive of. that is not the purpose of a budgetary control committee! our primary task should be to ensure that citizens' money is spent properly, correctly and in accordance with the political decisions that are available. it is in the context of the adoption of policies that the battle over how to distribute the money must be fought - not subsequently in the context of the discharge procedure. but other than that, i think that overall it has been a positive development. i think that the committee on budgetary control has exercised its mandate in a very sensible way. i hope that will also be apparent when the final reports are presented tomorrow. unfortunately, the commission still exceeds the important benchmark of a maximum of 2% of the total budget for waste, fraud and fraud. as long as it does, neither i nor the ecr group can vote for the discharge, but we hope very much and would like to support the rapporteur in keeping the report on the commission as it stands. we think that's a very sensible result. we could have wished for a little more, but in the name of compromise, this is a much better result than we are used to on this front. thank you for your cooperation.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i would like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee who have produced some very good and critical reports. i think we have had a really good cooperation again this year. although we may not agree on everything, the results have been good. i would also like to thank the auditors for the very thorough reports that come from there. unfortunately, there are good reasons for being critical again this year, especially when we look at the error rate, which continues to be too high. this year it has reached as high as 4.7%, which is of course unacceptable. the many billions of euros which are tainted by either error, fraud or deception could have been spent on good things, such as creating jobs or the environment. that is why we cannot hesitate to grant discharge to the commission this year either. we need to get this straight. we must again note this year that the council apparently does not want to contribute to greater openness and democracy in the european union. now the council has had the chance in the discharge for 2007, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and now again for 2013. but the council still does not want to answer parliament's questions about its accounts, and that is why we in the committee on budgetary control have refused to grant discharge. i really hope that the whole of parliament will support it. it is nothing short of a scandal that the council continues to deny us access to information. and frankly, it is incomprehensible that they can bring themselves to refer to a gentleman's agreement from the 1970s. my dear friends, let us try to take democracy a little more seriously than that! we owe it to the people. that's important too! it is important for the citizens that we in this parliament stand together against this rejection. it is important for the citizens that we in parliament send a clear signal that we will not accept that the council will not answer our questions. we need transparency and we need to keep our money under control.
for the ecr group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. i would say that the greatest prize we can give him from our side is that he has resisted some of the most extravagant requests for budget increases. in the first place, we have to take account of the fact that the budgetary authority has not yet been able to take a decision on the budget. actually, we think it could have been worse. if we cannot recommend a vote in favour of parliament's budget, it is simply because, at a time when europe is in crisis and the various member states are having to save, we do not think it acceptable that we should increase the budget. even if it is a smaller increase than one might have feared. at the same time, we cannot understand why there should be a greater increase in appropriations for the recruitment of new staff. we think that is a very bad signal to send to our citizens. that is why we regret that we cannot support the final settlement.
mr president, at least for the iter joint undertaking i know that there might be a change in granting discharge or not, so at least for that one it is important that we have a separate vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on the resolution as a whole, as it is my opinion that the budget of the european parliament should not increase in a time of crisis, where the eu is asking the member states and the eu-citizens to tighten their budgets. the european parliament should be a leading example and do the same. however, i recognize and respect that the european parliament has a 7 year rolling budget agreed in 2014 which includes an increase in the budget. at the same time, i understand that the european parliament must have a budget, and voting against the budget will not be the responsible choice.
in writing. ‒ the danish members of the s&d group do not support increasing member states' contributions to the eu. it is therefore up to each member state to finance an increase in development aid in such a way as to meet the un minimum commitment of 0.7% of gnp. in this respect, ftts may be a possible financing for those countries which choose to introduce them.
in writing. ‒ the danish members of the s&d group do not support increasing member states' contributions to the eu. it is therefore up to each member state to finance an increase in development aid in such a way as to meet the un minimum commitment of 0.7% of gnp. in this respect, ftts may be a possible financing for those countries which choose to introduce them.
i have to say, madam president, thank you very much and i apologize for my carelessness. one of the great challenges we face in europe is to ensure that we have more entrepreneurs and that we also introduce entrepreneurship education in our education systems. with that in mind, to support that work, it is important to point out that we have erasmus for young entrepreneurs which the member states can use. in addition, if we are to support entrepreneurship in europe, it is also important that we in the member states avoid overimplementing a large number of the forthcoming eu initiatives and that the member states themselves take the initiative to remove superfluous or ineffective regulations that constitute market barriers. of course, we must also ensure that directives are consistently transposed into national law so that we have a level playing field. it is equal competition that ensures the best opportunities for our entrepreneurs and it is this that should encourage young people to start their own businesses.
i have to say that i am very pleased. now i've totally screwed up because a little while ago, in the course of my treatment with health care and antibiotics, i said what i was supposed to say now. fortunately, not many people, apart from the interpreters, notice when you switch between the speeches. maybe the chairman did, too. that must have sounded strange to many people. since repetition does not make things more right, i shall not repeat what i said before and leave it at that.
i have to say that i am very pleased. i have today supported the own-initiative report on green growth. it is a very good contribution to one of the growth initiatives that will benefit europe in the future. i really hope that the commission will look at the report carefully so that some of the initiatives can be put on the agenda. there is no doubt that we have untapped potential which will increase the competitiveness of european enterprises in the future. and that goes for service as well as production. we have many small and mediumsized enterprises competing on the international market for solutions which include both products and so-called green services, such as plant, installation, repair and management. here too, when we talk about development and marketing, it is very, very important that these green services should be included in future trade agreements, and i am thinking in particular of the ttip agreement.
madam president, if we are to achieve a true common security and defence policy within the european union, we need at least two things. we need a vision and we need a new strong common security strategy to guide and deliver upon that vision. in my view, russia once again constitutes a primary security and defence challenge for europe. it is a challenge to the fundamental value of europe whole and free, where the sovereignty of every country is respected and where every country can freely choose its partners and pursue membership of the eu and nato without a veto or even violent attacks from russia. i therefore ask you, madam vice-president, how is the work on the unified eu-russia strategy progressing? when will you be able to present it to parliament? how and to what extent can we push for even harder, enhanced nato-eu cooperation within the strategy? nato remains the backbone of european defence and security, but europe can also take a more active and dominant role.
vice-president of the commission. – mr. president, i have a few comments to make on what was said, if i may. first of all, of course it is very important and interesting to hear of the economic success of hungary, and i know prime minister orbán is a formidable campaigner, who has won some of the most astonishing election victories and therefore has a huge democratic mandate. but neither economic success nor democratic mandate can weaken the position of the rule of law in any member state of the european union. you cannot use an electoral victory or economic success as a sort of condition to say ‘we do not then have to observe the rule of law in a member state’. so i am interested in hearing the stories about economic success and electoral success, but it is neither here nor there in this debate, frankly. this debate is about the rule of law. secondly, this debate in my perception is not about party politics. i respect everybody who wants to make it a debate about party politics but for the commission it is not, and i am sure that many in the alde group would be surprised to be categorised as left-wing today, but this is a completely different matter. thirdly, i am all in favour of freedom of speech, it is one of the fundamental values we cherish. it is one of the values mr orbán fought very hard for when he was in opposition against the communist regime before the end of the european divide, because that is when i got to know him and, indeed, he was a liberal at the time. but this freedom of speech is also limited by the rule of law. if you say: ‘i want to have a debate on abolishing the death penalty’, of course you can have a debate on that, but the consequence of having a proposal on the abolishment of the death penalty would be a violation of international and european obligations. now the prime minister has said it is incompatible with membership of the european union. prime minister orbán has been very clear about this. he is never intending to put a proposal forward to do that. well, my political question is: if you never intend to make a proposal, why then have a debate? what is then the reason for the debate? but that is a different matter, and let me also sometimes pose a rhetorical question like this. and finally, if we have a debate – and i salute prime minister orbán, i respect the fact that he comes here because he knows exactly what is going to happen here; he comes here, he stands for his position, he defends it, and i as a democrat respect that. but my respect would be bigger if the proposals of the commission were not put forward as a caricature, as has been done by prime minister orbán today. where, prime minister, in the proposal of the commission, does the commission propose to have an open-door policy for migration into the european union? where is that, please tell me? where in the proposals of the commission, the migration proposals that we have presented, do we propose to have freedom for all economic migrants to come here? where do we do that? on the contrary, we want to have a much firmer policy so that people who do not have the right to asylum must return where they came from. that is part and parcel of the commission’s proposals. and if we have the issue of quotas, it is in very, very limited, very serious cases of a very serious crisis, in a situation where a very, very high number of asylum requests are indeed attributed as they are because they come in this case from syria or eritrea, where we know that these people are fleeing war and conflict. but this quota idea is for a very, very limited number of people, and it would help the debate, honestly, if we did not make a caricature of the proposals of the commission, because it would also help to have the european public better informed of what we intend to do. and indeed, we need to do something to prevent masses of people coming to europe who do not have the right to asylum. we should help them stay in the countries where they belong. we should help them stay in the region where they belong. and this is all part of the commission proposal. i make this point so strongly because i do believe that the only way forward in the migration debate is to be honest and clear about each other’s intention and each other’s plans. so my plea from the bottom of my heart to the hungarian government is, and to everybody else, do not make a caricature of the plans of the european commission, because we are on the same page in terms of fighting illegal migration. but we are also advocating a humane approach in full accordance with values we share. values, prime minister, that you fought for as a young man when your people and country were being oppressed by communism. those values are values we share in the european union, and you participate in the debate because you know full well that we are entitled to address each other about these values. you cannot say ‘nobody from an outside eu member state can talk about the situation in my country’. it is part and parcel of being members of the european community of values that we do address the internal situation in each other’s countries. we should do it with respect, i fully agree with you, prime minister, but you cannot be excluded from debating the situation in a member state simply because you are not a national of that member state. that is also being part of the community of values that is the european union. let me end on this, talking about the very, very difficult case of refugees. i think of the country i know best, my country of origin the netherlands: németh, szass, tóth, these are now dutch names. these are now names of sometimes the most successful people in dutch society. these are people or children of people who had to flee communist oppression when the soviet union crushed hungary’s wish for liberty in 1956. and i as a dutchman am proud of having németh, tóth, szass and all the other hungarian names as part of the netherlands, as part of our community of values. and they could do that because the dutch people and many other europeans in 1956 knew that the desperate people fleeing from hungary needed a place to go, and they opened their hearts, they opened their homes, they opened their societies, and this is an example that we should follow. this is an example that tells us what european values are really, really about. (applause)
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, i do hope that today’s face-to-face exchange of views has assisted in better understanding each other’s position. i have listened carefully to the range of views expressed during the course of this debate. as i said at the outset, the european union is a union of shared fundamental values, equally binding on all eu institutions and member states. the abolition of the death penalty is just one example. it is a fundamental condition for eu membership. the eu has gone a very long way to enshrine this principle in the treaties. we cannot forbid anyone from having a debate, but, at the same time, we hope that the outcome of this debate will reconfirm the commitment to this fundamental principle. freedom of expression is our common fundamental value but it has its limits. extremist speech is forbidden. i have not heard in this debate today that anyone in this room disagrees that the right to work, the right to a fair trial, and the right to free and fair elections are not among the european union’s core values. at the same time, there should be caution when choosing the means for defending our own values. extreme measures may not produce the expected results. i believe we shall continue our debate until we convince each other, even if it does not happen today. as i have already mentioned, i speak as the presidency of the council and therefore in the name of all 28 of its members. it is a difficult task. since the subject of today’s debate has not been discussed in the council, my choice of words is very limited. however, i most certainly commit to transmitting your views to the members of the council.
member of the commission.– madam president, the adoption of the fourth anti—money laundering directive and the regulation on the information accompanying transfers of funds, which are strategic texts for the european union, will represent a significant step towards the improved effectiveness of our efforts to combat the laundering of criminal proceeds and to counter the financing of terrorist activities. i would like to express my gratitude to parliament and in particular to the two co—rapporteurs, mrs sargentini and mr kariņš, as well as the shadow rapporteurs, for the strong support which they gave this file and all their hard work. the consecutive presidencies also put a lot of effort into this, especially the italian presidency under which the work and the trilogue negotiations were finalised in december last year. i am convinced that today we have a result which we can be satisfied with. tomorrow’s vote marks another step closer to stronger rules to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. in light of the recent terrorist attacks in europe and the adoption of a european security agenda, it is crucial that these rules become operational as soon as possible. we now have the tools at hand to better detect and trace billions of euros which come from criminal proceeds or financial flows which support terrorist groups and activities. enhancing beneficial ownership transparency has also been at the heart of the international agenda. i particularly welcome the ambitious approach adopted by both parliament and the member states to introduce registers of beneficial ownership for companies and legal arrangements. work must now begin to ensure that this framework, which focuses on greater effectiveness and improved transparency, is quickly put in place. the commission will work with member states to speed up the process of implementation of the new anti-money laundering requirements. i would like to encourage parliament to give its final assent by its vote, which will mark the adoption of a stronger framework to combat money laundering and to counter terrorism financing.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, as the shadow rapporteur for the group, i would like to thank my colleagues for the very good cooperation. i think we can say today that we have actually come a long way, so thank you very much for that. this is also a very important subject that we are discussing. for example, as regards developments in the global south, the un has said that african countries alone lose about $50 billion a year because of tax fraud and money laundering. this is almost twice the amount they receive in development aid. in the fight against illicit capital flight, transparency is the most crucial weapon. it is important that the authorities and the public can detect the shell companies and fraudulent funds that multinational companies use to launder their money and to hide their profits so that they do not have to contribute to the community through taxation. that is why we have also supported the introduction of a public register which will enable the public to trace the existence of shell companies back to their real owners. however, we do not believe that only the authorities should have access to this information. this access should also be available to ordinary citizens, journalists and ngos. after all, it is thanks to their efforts that scandals like lux leaks have come to light. unfortunately, it has not been possible to obtain a full public register this time. this is because there have been strong forces both in the commission and among some governments in the council which did not want this transparency. i would therefore urge the governments, including my own in denmark, which supported the introduction of a fully public register, to take the step forward that we have ensured they can take.
mr president, i would like to thank you. often in this house one gets the impression that one is very far from reality. this is also the case in this case, where the warnings even from frontex are not taken into account when it comes to a major search and rescue operation in the mediterranean. unfortunately, when the italians introduced mare nostrum, we saw that it had a much greater appeal to people smugglers and to people who, in desperation and poverty, are trying to escape to europe. already this year frontex expects over half a million people to seek the mediterranean route. some will drown in tragic accidents, of course, but many will make it. we will only increase the number of people who will try to get to europe this way as we increase our efforts in the coastal areas. like it or not, the only humane immediate response to the situation in the mediterranean at the moment is to go the australian way and take the bread out of the mouths of the smugglers and help the refugees where they are most numerous, namely in their neighbourhoods.
in writing. ‒ in denmark, since 1984, fathers have been entitled to two weeks' paternity leave within the first 14 weeks after birth. the danish members of the s&d group are in favour of establishing a right to 10 working days of paid paternity leave in the eu, but also believe that there is a need for a clear definition of what 'paid paternity leave' covers.
in writing. ‒ in the specific cases where, for example, a disease such as xylella fastidiosa causes serious economic damage to european agricultural production, it may be appropriate to provide for financial compensation from the eu. however, such compensation shall not cover losses in cultural heritage, history and tourism-related activities.
i have to say, madam president, as time goes by, it is becoming increasingly clear that it was a mistake to open accession negotiations with turkey. turkey is an extremely important player in the region, it is a member of nato and it should be a democratic society with which we can have a natural cooperation in the eu. but eu membership has proved to be the wrong path for turkey. we see today that fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and of demonstration are being trampled underfoot by what was until a few years ago a turkey moving in a western direction, a turkey moving towards a genuine democracy in the sense we understand the concept in the western world. i think it is therefore quite clear that the prospect of eu membership has had the opposite effect of what was hoped for. the european union has moved away from ataturk and towards islamism, and if this trend continues, i hope we will be able to stop the accession negotiations today rather than tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, turkey is an important strategic partner of the eu. it is politically, it is economically, and this is perhaps the reason why the european parliament is compromising the copenhagen criteria of 1993. the copenhagen criteria have both an economic and a political aspect. the economic criterion of a functioning market economy will probably not cause any problems. but what about the political criteria which require that the country should have stable institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities? in 1993, it was agreed that when accession negotiations were opened, the candidate country would have to meet the political criteria. turkey is lacking in european values. freedom of expression suffers, journalists and trade union leaders are persecuted, and religious minorities are persecuted. well, the basic premise is not right at all. now colleagues in the chamber are talking about the opening of new chapters. if turkey had been a small country, the door would have been closed. i very much agree that we need to look at an alternative partnership instead.
on behalf of the s&d group.– madam president, every single day more than 500 million europeans rely on having electricity in their power circuits, heat in their radiators, and gas for their stoves and boilers. it is a thing we take for granted, and indeed rightfully so. when it comes to energy, it has to just work. but someday, commissioner, it very well might not work. i need not tell you that maintaining, running and supervising the energy infrastructure of europe is no small feat. that is exactly why we need a strong, active and engaged acer that can supervise it all and tackle the problems faced by europe as we move towards an energy union and a true internal energy market. the remit, of course, is the most pressing issue at hand, but before us lies a long list of obstacles to be removed before we can achieve the energy union that europe needs: real infrastructure bottlenecks between european countries prohibiting the free flow of energy across borders due to the lack of transmission capacity, as you know; and artificial energy bottlenecks, where available transmission capacity is intentionally under-utilised or blocked outright, fragmenting further the internal energy market. to combat this, we need acer to just work, but without manpower it will not. commissioner, when will the commission provide acer with the necessary financial resources to handle its obligation on the remit? that is my first question. when will the commission come forward with concrete and detailed information on how and when the mandate and powers of acer will be expanded, and will the commissioner guarantee that such a proposal would be accommodated by the much-needed increase for the acer budget, keeping also in mind that new responsibilities must also come with additional resources?
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, we need a european energy union in order to strengthen our energy security and achieve our climate and environmental objectives. this can only be achieved through a strong system of governance which ensures that member states do not pull in different directions and pursue contradictory policies. above all, it must ensure that we increase cross-border energy flows to deliver a genuine, functional single market for energy. this is precisely why we have an agency like acer. as previously mentioned, acer has been given increased responsibilities within the third energy package. however, it is crystal clear that it lacks the resources needed to meet all those responsibilities. acer itself has identified the need for 118 members of staff but has been approved resources for only 77 members of staff. as a result of this, crucial actions related to its remit are being postponed at a time when action must take place faster than ever before in order to build a true european energy union. so my question to the commission is, what vision does the commission have for the development of acer’s tasks and responsibilities? most urgently, how does the commission envisage closing the gap in funding and budget requirements that we are facing now?
i have to say, madam president, we heard the commissioner today saying that we must be vigilant about acer. it is clear that sound supervision and enforcement also require both competent and adequate resources. in this connection, i think it is particularly worrying that acer has not been taken into account, when the commission is now simultaneously putting forward very ambitious plans for a european energy union. better use and sharing of european energy is therefore essential if we are to make europe independent of putin's whims and if we are to make european businesses more competitive and create more sustainable growth. but it is clear that to get there we still need a strong and also a forceful regulatory authority, and this is particularly relevant when we envisage stronger regional cooperation both in the context of the energy union and in the context of the electricity capacity objective. this is why we need to add more staff.
for the ecr group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the leaders of the free world are meeting at a time when challenges, threats and problems are mounting. challenges that seriously question our security, our independence and our fundamental values. i can agree with what mr timmermanns, mr weber and others have said about russia, but we also have problems and challenges with our economies, with security around the globe and with the terrorists who are gaining ground both in our own countries and abroad. g7 leaders must find a way to deal with the threat posed by the so-called islamic state in syria and iraq. it is horrifying to see how a dark ideology is allowed to take over one city after another, carry out its ideology of terror and receive almost no resistance. the free world must take the initiative to curb the terrorist movement we are witnessing. here in the eu we could at least do more to find and punish those who, from their exile in our countries, help and support the sick ideology that the 'islamic state' spreads with violence and weapons. it is intolerable to see the many civilian victims of the many massacres. it is unbearable to hear about the cultural treasures that are threatened and in danger of being destroyed. it is intolerable that the islamic state can find supporters even in our own countries who are willing to fight for their cause. sadly, the threat from this world's terrorists is not the only one we have to deal with. the whole global economy remains under threat, including the instability of the eurozone. while most of the world outside the euro area has been able to put the financial crisis behind it, key parts of the european economy are still in recession why? because the euro puts an iron ring around the countries whose only medicine seems to be internal devaluation or austerity, as we call it. it is time that the world leaders - and not least those representing our countries - realized that the rhetoric about a common policy as the necessary solution to all the world's problems is wrong! our countries are not created from the top down like the united states, for example. there is therefore a limit to the amount of common policy that makes sense when the differences in taxation, in labour market policy and in the conduct of economic and financial policy are obviously large. it's not just about economics, it's about influence. the negotiations between the united states and the european union on a free trade agreement are a clear example of the eu losing its breath. the united states has alternatives, and if we miss the chance of a free trade agreement across the atlantic, then the americans will simply turn their eyes to china, india or other economies. the eu is a second choice because the euro has destroyed our economy. there's a lot of things for the g7 to deal with. these are just two of them.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. ladies and gentlemen! we know that agriculture is suffering in all countries. i think it is important that we can work together to safeguard the interests of agriculture. as we all know, 2016 will unfortunately also be a potentially difficult year for agriculture because of the producers, because of russia's embargo on eu agricultural products. this means job losses, and we must think about that, and therefore we must also help agriculture through. that is why some relief is needed, also for the farmers who are paying a heavy price for the crisis and for the possible crisis in agriculture around us. it is still unclear how long and whether the russian embargo will continue. one thing is certain, however, and that is that farmers are paying the price for the political disputes between the eu and russia. therefore, new markets must be found for the products that would normally have been sent to russia, as russia was an important market for eu products. as you all know, the export of pigmeat is one of denmark's products which has been hit very hard, so alternative markets must be found.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank mr landsbergis for a strong report which will be supported by a large majority in this parliament. russia has shown time and again that it does not respect democracy, human rights and freedom of the press under putin. the destabilising actions in ukraine are also a breach of international obligations and a violation of democratic principles. the conflict in ukraine is a threat to the security and peace of the whole of europe. i believe that as long as putin is in power in russia, the course will not change, but we must maintain and expand our sanctions against russia. there is no doubt that when we look at our energy policy in europe, it tells me that we must become independent in the long term, because this conflict cannot be solved here and now. that is why europe must ensure that we become energy independent of russia in the future.
i have to say, madam president, in the danish delegation to the ecr we have decided not to vote for the crisis fund, because it does not reach 100 per cent. we know that it may prove important to have a reserve for the future crisis, but at the same time we also know that it is only farmers who have paid the price for the international and political disagreement between the eu and third world countries such as russia. this is causing a lot of job losses and export losses for danish farmers. minimising the direct payment to farmers is therefore a very hard measure to take, as farmers are already suffering from the crisis. we would therefore like to be allowed to consider other options than simply reducing their payment. that is why we think that this should be considered a little better, so thank you for speaking!
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the eu energy security strategy is at the very heart of our energy politics in these uncertain times. ensuring that our supplies of energy are stable, secure and reliable is not just about convenience for consumers but also about ensuring that people are warm enough to survive in winter. by fundamentally changing the way we supply, distribute and consume energy, we can ensure that european citizens do not have to fear such threats in the future. i am glad that in this report we have been able to agree, across party lines, on the need to look not just at the issue of gas imports. we have taken a step further by also addressing the link between the need to reduce gas imports and the benefits that more efficient use of energy and renewables can bring. this will not only address security of supply but also offer significant opportunities for local jobs and growth within the eu through productive investment in infrastructure and renovation. reducing dependence on fossil fuels, particularly gas and oil, has created local jobs and a competitive economy, as well as a thriving export base in the development of renewable energy and energy efficiency technologies in my own country, denmark. i think that it is important that europe should undertake such a green transition, delivering both energy security and economic prosperity at the same time. this very important report could contribute to all this. i want to end by thanking the rapporteur and colleagues for such good cooperation on this very important file. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you. i am not saying – and i do not think anybody will claim – that this is going to be easy in any way, but i think we all see increasing willingness to cooperate across party lines in this house and hopefully also between member states, because the challenges that we face are for real. this will require more cooperation and thereby, hopefully, also fulfilling the wishes from the person asking this important question.
mr. chairman, please. i would have said a lot about the need for europe to have a strong common foreign and security policy and a strong defence policy. the soft power we have in europe, which is economic in nature, is limited by others when territorial struggles are involved in foreign policy. there is a lot to be said about this, but i simply have to address the fact that when we had the vote, some words came up that i have not really thought about since the cold war, namely 'useful idiots' and 'fifth columnist activity'. these were concepts that we had in my country of origin, denmark. at that time it was about the left, who were the useful idiots in the soviet union of that time. i must say that what we have seen here today is a display of the useful idiots of the european right, namely putin's useful idiots. i think it's a shame.
mr. chairman, please. i voted in favour of the proposal today because i think it is extremely important that the eu finds its feet in this area. it is regrettable that there was no majority today for the eu's energy security strategy. we are living in a world where the eu has become increasingly dependent on external energy sources over the last decade, not least on putin's gas and oil from the middle east. it is therefore necessary that we use a number of elements in the coming years to ensure that we have a security strategy and security of supply. this is big politics. i think it is regrettable that we cannot agree on this at the moment. we must take all the necessary measures to become more energy independent of russia in the future. this applies to shale gas, nuclear power, energy efficiency and renewable energy. i think we have to use the whole palette to become energy independent, not least from russia.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report on the european energy security strategy, because the issue of energy security is at the very heart of our energy policy in these uncertain times. in this report, we managed to ensure that europe’s energy security is viewed not only as a short-term question of gas supply but also as a driver for local jobs and growth within the eu, through productive investment in innovation, the development of infrastructure such as district heating systems, and the renovation and construction of highly energy-efficient buildings. energy efficiency measures and technologies, coupled with the integration of renewables, play a crucial role in reducing dependence on fossil fuels, and, in denmark, they have created local jobs and a competitive economy, as well as a thriving export base. i believe that others in europe will benefit from this kind of high-efficiency green energy transition, delivering both energy security and economic prosperity. i am therefore deeply disappointed that this report was rejected. i hope, at least, that, despite the result, the many positive examples we highlighted will still be taken into account in the ongoing work of building a european energy union.
mr president, i would like to thank you. these days the third freedom flotilla is again sailing to gaza to the imprisoned people there. i would like to call on everyone to support this peaceful demonstration so that we can also show the poor people of gaza that they are not forgotten by the international community and that we will also strongly condemn israel's threat to attack again a non-violent action as they did five years ago, when several people were killed. i would also say to the council that now is the time to act so that we have a chance to change the course of this unfortunate region.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. i am not sure that this is the case. you'd think the seriousness of the situation would have made an impression. that the fact that millions of people are living in poverty, including far too many children, that we have too high unemployment and in particular too high youth unemployment, which is almost insurmountable, would have made such an impression that this parliament will point out new ways. but if you were so naive, you'd be disappointed! with this report, parliament is merely pointing out that we must do more of the same. we need to cut more in public spending, we need to end welfare and we need to take money from the poorest. it's just not good enough! my group tried to draw attention to the imbalances in the euro structure. for example, the problem of the surplus on the balance of payments not being good only if it comes from, for example, wage restraint and dumping of other countries' domestic markets. but the majority refused to see the problem. the people of europe need - yes, they want - a different path. they must have influence over their country's economy and not see it run by the eu, and they must have solutions to poverty and unemployment and not more of the same. it was a new answer that we should have given them. with hope and with a future, with new frameworks and opportunities to develop welfare rather than to abolish it. unfortunately, they are disappointed once again, and neither the majority in this parliament nor the rest of the eu elite want to listen to them. this is sad both for welfare and for democracy, and therefore the report must of course also be rejected. (the speaker agreed to answer a question by way of a blue card (rule 162 (8)).
blue card answer. i think the problem with looking only at the surplus of payments, the balance of payments, is that you are blinded and you do not see that if there is wage retention among the workers in the country, they are hit very hard and you actually see that the economy is being weakened. at the same time, i think it is a problem if this surplus is due to dumping in relation to other countries' domestic markets. it was not just wage dumping, but wage retention that i was talking about.
in writing. there is no doubt that waste and resource waste management is a major challenge faced by all member states in one way or another. the focus on making the best use of our resources is therefore also welcome. the report contains some good elements - for example, that new products should be more durable. this is a way of improving both the environment and consumer safety. similarly, the call for harmonisation of measurement methods and definitions across the union is a healthy element and a much-needed tool to gain an overview of waste management capacity - both at union and national level. however, i am concerned that the demands of the eu will be too great. in denmark, waste incineration is still widespread in the production of cogeneration, and therefore the report also deals with the way in which we deal with our waste at home. in denmark we are already implementing a waste strategy to ensure that less waste is incinerated in favour of more recycling. i am concerned that the new eu rules will be so comprehensive that they will do more harm than good to initiatives already under way through national legislation.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i thank mr nicholson for the report on the prospects for the dairy sector in the european union and the possibilities for the agricultural sector. the dairy sector employs many people, both directly and indirectly. economic life has changed with large fluctuations in prices and capital costs. it is important to ensure the future of our dairy farmers. in this connection we are facing some challenges in terms of the russian import ban, but also in terms of the political decisions and decision-makers - what is being imposed on the farmers. the farmers pay the price. mr nicholson's proposal can help to shed light on the various challenges we face, but also on whether eu legislation is geared to safeguarding milk producers going forward. that is why we will have to discuss framework conditions in the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs.– mr president, in the debate it sounds way too often like ttip is an end in itself, but that is absolutely not the case. i think the world’s biggest trade and investment partnership should be a means, a tool to ensure jobs and prosperity for all europeans and americans. but fundamentally, it is also a unique opportunity for the eu and us – the dominant forces of the western world – to ensure that trade and investment rules are based on our democratic values and control in a situation of increased competition from non-democratic powers in an ever more globalised world. so the choice of this parliament is very simple: if we want, we can start taking back democratic control of economic globalisation. the lange resolution, with its focus on labour rights, democratic values, high standards, sustainability and a clear ‘no’ to the old isds system, is crucially important. it should therefore be adopted if this parliament wants to make a real difference. we all know that there are politicians in this parliament who will reject any ttip agreement. this is no solution; we should adopt a strong resolution, and i think we have it in front of us. i look forward to adopting it tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, as the many popular protests have shown, there are major problems with the ttip negotiations. firstly, the essence of the agreement is that when something is approved in one place, it must automatically be approved in another place. this means that once the united states has approved a chemical, we must also accept it in the eu, even if we may be concerned about the health or environmental consequences. this undermines our democratic right to protect consumers. secondly, multinational companies will have the right to sue democratically elected governments, regardless of minor adjustments to the isds. thirdly, ttip will mean even more liberalisation of public tasks. and i could go on! my dear friends! more than 2.3 million europeans have written to us asking us to reject this agreement. let us show them that we are listening to them, today and tomorrow.
i have to say, madam president, the ttip is good for growth and for more jobs in europe, and i shall not waste my time repeating what many of my colleagues in the ppe have already said today. the single market in the eu has proved its worth and created jobs. the ttip is a mirror of the single market and i would like to draw attention to the debate we had over 10 years ago in 2002, when we decided to admit 10 new eastern european countries to the eu. at that time, many of the western european countries were also concerned about workers' rights, unequal competition, high hourly wages and high energy prices. but what has happened? it has happened that poland, for example, has tripled its gdp per capita, and a costly country like denmark has increased its exports from 10 to 19 billion. we were not outcompeted by cheap energy prices; we were not outcompeted by cheap hourly wages. so this is a question of whether we want more trade and more jobs. it is now that we are setting the standards for 800 million consumers, standards that chinese and indians and others must also abide by.
in writing. this proposal contains elements which could help to improve the conditions for tourism throughout europe. but the overall proposal is too comprehensive in my view. we are concerned that the requirement for a common ticketing system will be too costly for small and mediumsized enterprises.
in writing. by the time this vote is over, milk prices will have fallen further and will continue to do so. the eu legislation in this area has never worked as intended and probably never will. it is still the farmers who will pay the highest price, which is very worrying, but nicholson's proposal may shed more light on the challenges we are facing.
for the ecr group. i think we all agree that there should be common rules for the companies in question, but the proposal put forward goes far beyond what is reasonable. this goes far beyond what we in the european parliament should be involved in. by regulating issues of related party transactions and the remuneration of directors, we are interfering to an unprecedented extent in how private companies should be run, how their individual management rights should be arranged. in my view, the proposal is based on the idea that the management of europe's listed companies is generally driven by the desire for short-term gains rather than long-term goals and good solid results. nothing could be more wrong if you come from denmark, where we know novo nordisk, where we know ap møller maersk, which has just proved worthy of the trust that has shown that they can handle these issues themselves. that is why we in the ecr group will today abstain from supporting the report. we will vote neither/nor because we need a good framework, but this proposal goes too far.
i have to say, madam president, i am a strong advocate of active shareholder involvement in companies and of transparency in corporate pay policies and major transactions. of course, as a shareholder, you have to be involved and have a say. the original commission proposal for this directive is both inappropriate and would harm european companies with an inflexible model that would not accommodate existing national solutions for public limited companies and shareholder participation. we must ensure that shareholders have a say, but we must also ensure that we do not hamper the growth of european companies. we should not make rules so burdensome and unwieldy that they reduce the competitiveness of firms. i think we have reached a reasonable compromise in parliament and i believe we can also reach a sensible solution in the negotiations with the council. finally, i would like to stress that i am in favour of combating tax evasion and tax avoidance, and of course companies must cooperate with the authorities in this effort. that said, i think we should keep the focus on this directive. this is about shareholder rights, not tax policy. let us tackle tax policy initiatives where they belong, in tax law, and by incorporating them into this directive, let us concentrate on creating the best possible framework for shareholders. (the speaker agreed to answer a question by way of a blue card (rule 162 (8)).
blue card questions. what are you talking about? madam president, i would like to ask mr bendtsen whether it is not important that we ensure that there is equal and fair competition between companies and whether country-by-country reporting in relation to companies is not therefore essential for transparency and to ensure that no one cheats on taxes at the expense of other companies? i would also like to ask mr bendtsen whether he does not support the inclusion of country-by-country reporting in this directive.
blue card answer. what i mentioned in my speech was that i think transparency is good and that i am in favour of country-by-country reporting. i think, however, that it is mentioned in a great many places in various directives. that's why i think this is really about shareholder rights. so we should take up tax policy in its entirety at another time, rather than mentioning it in a series of initiatives.
i have to say, madam president, - i'm not going to lie to you. it costs money to run a welfare society, to make sure the hospital is open, and that the doctor and the medicine are ready when the accident happens. it all costs money, the money we pay through our taxes. but for too long, some companies have found it too easy to evade paying taxes. unfortunately, tax fraud, tax speculation and tax evasion remain a popular pastime in some international companies. other companies have, through irresponsible high-risk investments, plunged entire countries and regions into economic crisis. both phenomena are destructive to our well-being, our growth and our values. with this directive we are now making a major contribution to the fight against tax evasion and the fight against irresponsible investment. we need to have country-by-country reporting in all sectors so we can track cash flows and ensure that companies pay taxes in the countries where they make their money and don't send all their profits to tax havens.
mr president, president schulz promised us yesterday, and i talked about it with him last night, that we would have a one-minute silence in memory of the many, many children and civilians killed in gaza last year.
in writing. ‒ this week we adopted parliament's opinion on the ttip negotiations. i voted for it. it is now that we have the opportunity to set the standard for more than 800 million people on both sides of the atlantic, whether it be the environment, consumer protection or working conditions. standards that china and other emerging economies will also have to live up to. this is a historic opportunity. we can also create the jobs and growth we need here in the days after the crisis. the critics are nervous. i'll compare it to when we expanded east. but poland has tripled its gdp, while denmark has increased its exports in ten years from 10 to 19 billion kroner - it's a win-win situation for both parties.
in writing. ‒ as social democrats, we are in favour of free trade under democratic governance. we do not believe that the market itself takes into account either workers' rights, the environment, public health, animal welfare or sustainable development. we believe that the market should be the servant, not the master. we have said very clearly and distinctly that we will not open the european market to broilers, gmo products and hormone steaks, that we will not compromise food safety or people's health and that we will not accept any deterioration in working conditions or rights. we stand by that and we have voted for it. we believe it is essential that the european parliament should state its official position on the ttip negotiations. that is why we voted for the resolution. the alternative would have been for the european commission to negotiate without having to take account of the legitimate concerns raised. this is particularly true of the isds issue. we do not want the commission to be free to negotiate and decide. we will not accept isds mechanisms as we know them from past agreements. we want an open, democratic process that puts national courts at the centre, ensures equality between foreign and domestic investors and ensures our full freedom to legislate as we wish.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the negotiations of the ttip. indeed, i support any good economic agreement which would bring opportunities and employment in our countries. at the same time, the european negotiator really must take into account the legitimate concerns about the potential consequences according to the outcome of these negotiations. the concerns are related in particular to the consequences of the 40% drop in customs duties on agricultural and industrial products (to match us rates) and the reduction of income for our producers. there are also concerns on standards of production (animal welfare, meat with hormones and gmos, animal meal, chicken washed with acid and chlorine, food containing banned pesticides), on strategic and health sectors (services of water, emergency, energy, weapons, personal data, aeronautics), on the cultural sector (appellations of origin, filmmaking, the audiovisual sector, the artistic sector, theatre, opera, museums, libraries, etc.), on the social framework (labour law), on public services (hospitals, schools, universities, social security), and on financialisation. to overcome national resistance, an arbitration court (isds) would be set up and multinationals would be able to sue the recalcitrant states to obtain damages in unlimited amount. free trade can only be truly free if it is a just, fair and beneficial trade for everyone.
in writing. ‒ as social democrats, we are in favour of free trade under democratic governance. we do not believe that the market itself takes into account either workers' rights, the environment, public health, animal welfare or sustainable development. we believe that the market should be the servant, not the master. we have said very clearly and distinctly that we will not open the european market to broilers, gmo products and hormone steaks, that we will not compromise food safety or people's health and that we will not accept any deterioration in working conditions or rights. we stand by that and we have voted for it. we believe it is essential that the european parliament should state its official position on the ttip negotiations. that is why we voted for the resolution. the alternative would have been for the european commission to negotiate without having to take account of the legitimate concerns raised. this is particularly true of the isds issue. we do not want the commission to be free to negotiate and decide. we will not accept isds mechanisms as we know them from past agreements. we want an open, democratic process that puts national courts at the centre, ensures equality between foreign and domestic investors, and ensures our full freedom to legislate as we wish. we voted for it today.
in writing. ‒ as social democrats, we are in favour of free trade under democratic governance. we do not believe that the market itself takes into account either workers' rights, the environment, public health, animal welfare or sustainable development. we believe that the market should be the servant, not the master. we have said very clearly and distinctly that we will not open the european market to broilers, gmo products and hormone steaks, that we will not compromise food safety or people's health and that we will not accept any deterioration in working conditions or rights. we stand by that and we have voted for it. we believe it is essential that the european parliament should state its official position on the ttip negotiations. that is why we voted for the resolution. the alternative would have been for the european commission to negotiate without having to take account of the legitimate concerns raised. this is particularly true of the isds issue. we do not want the commission to be free to negotiate and decide. we will not accept isds mechanisms as we know them from past agreements. we want an open, democratic process that puts national courts at the centre, ensures equality between foreign and domestic investors and ensures our full freedom to legislate as we wish. we voted for it today.
in writing. ‒ i am pleased to have voted today in favour of the negotiating mandate for the shareholder rights directive. i am a strong advocate of active shareholder involvement in companies and of transparency in corporate pay policies and major trade transactions. it's good for the shareholders and good for the company. the commission's proposal for a directive was both an unreasonable burden on our companies and based on a 'one-size-fits-all' principle, whereby the british model is being put down on all european business models. we must not be part of the adoption of rules which are so burdensome and unyielding that they weaken companies in the global market. fortunately, we have rectified this and the starting point we have adopted today ensures that the shareholders have a say. i'm holding on to that. it's important. i think we have reached a reasonable compromise in parliament and i believe we can also reach a good solution in the negotiations with the council. i am a little disappointed that we have blurred our message on shareholder involvement by adding elements on tax policy. let me emphasize that i am in favour of fighting tax evasion and tax avoidance. but tax policy should be tackled where it belongs - in tax law, where we are already in the process of introducing similar rules.
in writing. ‒ i am very pleased with the agreement we have approved today on the market stability reserve for the european carbon trading system, ets. the reserve will give new life to the ets, which is very necessary if we are to provide incentives for industry to contribute to reducing our co2 emissions in europe and thus become sustainable. the analysis shows that the earlier start date for the reserve, which we have now adopted, will make the price development of co2 allowances more stable, and this is absolutely crucial when the industry and the energy sector have to make long-term investment decisions. i am pleased that we have, in cooperation with the member states in the council, drawn a clear line that sustainability and competitiveness for enterprises can go hand in hand. i look forward to the same constructive and farsighted attitude when we negotiate a comprehensive revision of the ets in the autumn. i thank the rapporteur, mr belet, for the great work he has done and the excellent result.
in writing. ‒ i am divided on the report, whose intention i support in principle, but which i fear will be too excessive for the member states. in denmark we are already implementing a new waste strategy and therefore i also believe that there are a number of areas described in the report which can easily be tackled at national level without any intervention from the eu. there are a number of elements in the report which i can support, but i also believe that parliament should be careful not to become too ambitious. the commission itself estimates that 18 member states are already not complying with the current requirements of the waste and landfill directive. i am not sure that an increase in the level of ambition in so many different areas that the report touches on is what is needed at the moment when the eu countries as a whole cannot even meet current targets. i have therefore chosen to vote in the blank.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the julia reda report because it does not sufficiently protect the interests of authors, songwriters, film producers, etc., especially in small and medium-sized countries such as denmark. the global players will be the only ones to benefit from this standardisation of copyright and related rights, which undermines creativity and the economic development and competitiveness of the smaller member states. with such standardisation, the eu is doing great harm to the cultural, linguistic and artistic diversity that is so important to preserve in each of its member states.
the committee on international trade has adopted a report on the situation in the community. i would like to thank the president-in-office. the 2009 regulation made it illegal to sell sealskin products in the eu. the legislation has proved to be a disaster for the inuit and the indigenous people of the arctic. one of the two exceptions was that the inuit should be exempted and that there should be no consequences for the inuit. the commission did not have an impact assessment! however, the text is now being tightened. that's cool! all the figures have shown that the 2009 legislation had a huge detrimental effect on the inuit, and that an industry has been destroyed because they could not sell their skins. the greenland stocks have been depleted of up to 135 000 skins which are in surplus, which means that people have been removed from their original occupation as fishermen and made into social clients. we must note that it is a long way from brussels to north greenland. i would like to thank parliament's negotiators and mr buşoi today for the fact that the legislation has been much improved. unfortunately, we cannot thank the commission in this case. i am very pleased that the commission is now given an information obligation which it did not fulfil in the previous legislation.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are voting this week on the final proposal to amend the european ban on the import and export of seal products. we are doing so because of the wto decision that came. the socialist group supports the result of the negotiations. we do it because we think it's good. it is a very good balance between three important considerations: we are complying with the wto decision and thus with the eu's international obligations, we are maintaining the general ban on the import and export of seal products, and not least we are at the same time supporting the inuit, that is, the indigenous peoples, in continuing to sell their sustainable leather products in the eu. i am very pleased that in the result we have negotiated we are instructing the commission to inform both the public and the authorities that inuit sealskin products are legal on the european market. it's essential to their very existence. we are also going to monitor the consequences of the legislation here in parliament on a regular basis, through the reports which the commission is to submit to us, and i think that is important. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr buşoi, for the very good and constructive cooperation which has led to this very good result!
in writing. thank you to mr bușoi for his report and to the colleagues who have tabled the amendments which reflect the importance of preserving the culture and well-being of the arctic peoples. the 2008 eu regulation banning trade in seal products had a dramatic effect on greenland. the so-called 'inuit exception' could not protect the greenlandic seal products market alone. the economy of this area has suffered great losses and, more importantly, the eu's reputation has been seriously damaged among the inhabitants of the area. the greenlanders' appreciation of their close cooperation with the eu, which covers many areas, is overshadowed by the regulation. it is almost impossible to understand greenlandic culture and identity without the traditional and sustainable seal fishery. it is damaging to our chances of success in the eu's arctic policy to ban trade in seal products. this is happening at a time when the region is becoming more and more important on the international political agenda. the commission also found that the exporting producers in the prc had not provided any evidence that the measures were in breach of the undertaking. despite the efforts of the commission and despite the amendments, the situation is not improving for greenland. that is why i am voting against the motion. our ban on animal products should always be based on environmental, sustainability and animal welfare considerations. there are no such arguments against greenland seal hunting.
mr. chairman, please. i wholeheartedly support the report by the committee on the environment on cloning. we should ban products from cloned animals and their descendants in the eu. the technology is far from complete and the european food agency also says that we simply do not have enough knowledge to be able to guarantee that the food safety of these products is in order. there is also no doubt that the welfare of the cloned animals and their descendants is seriously threatened. it's all over the news. i think we should listen to the european citizens and their concerns. they do not want products from cloned animals and their offspring. i do not want that either, and that is why i support the report and say no to cloning.
mr. chairman, please. the fact that all the member states are complying with the rules is a completely fundamental requirement for any cooperation, not least an integrated cooperation like the eu. we must not forget that the agricultural policy in particular is going very, very badly. we are seeing a massive amount of fraud, non-compliance with rules, non-compliance with controls, with a huge waste of european, including danish, tax dollars as a result. it is not just regrettable, it is scandalous, especially when it is done in the very largest budgetary area we have in the eu system, which unfortunately is agricultural aid. that is why a proper message must be sent to the member states - especially those who do not comply with the rules, do not implement them in time - and it must be made clear that there must be a consequence. it is not right that some countries should be the puppets and others the villains. those who are acting as puppets might want to rethink their role.
mr. chairman, please. i voted in favour of this report because there is now a call for an information campaign. the commission is therefore now obliged to inform the public and raise awareness of the rules applicable to the marketing of seal products from arctic fishing communities. there is no doubt that the regulation made in 2009 has been an affront to the people who treat the environment and nature much better than many others, namely the inuit far from the north. there was not even an impact assessment. this means that more than 135 000 sealskins have been collected in norway or in north greenland. so we need to look at this. i am glad that there is a report on this, because it really shows that the 2009 regulation was a piece of crap.
mr. chairman, please. unlike my good colleague, i do not entirely share the view that the way in which the wto acts have been implemented is in greenland's interest. i think it must be said that the ban on seal products is more emotionally than rationally justified, especially when it comes to greenland. it is absolutely impossible to talk about, understand, relate to or get under the skin of greenlandic history and the greenlandic people if you do not understand the relationship to nature, to the hunt, to the seals in particular. it is simply that the eu has completely ignored the interests of indigenous peoples in the way it has chosen to deal with the wto requirements. the inuit exception in the regulation is not what we need. i think it's an insult to greenland. i think it is an insult to a proud prison population that we should protect and cherish, and that is why i am glad that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on trade in seal products and the proposal to deprive greenland fishermen of the opportunity to sell their seal products commercially. i believe that greenland fishermen are using entirely humane and sustainable fishing methods and are killing the adult seal instantly with a rifle shot. greenland's fishing methods are unfairly compared with those in canada, for example, where baby seals are killed with sticks. many greenlandic communities in the arctic are deeply dependent on their catch and products for their livelihoods and it therefore makes no sense to deprive them of the opportunity to pursue an age-old profession which is also a huge part of their culture. in the waters around greenland, there are about 12 million seals. the greenland sealers shoot about 150 000 seals a year. independent biologists have determined that even if the captors were to catch three times as many seals, the catch would still be sustainable. from an animal welfare ethical point of view, these seals have lived their whole lives in freedom and have been killed quickly and precisely - unlike many of the animals we kill every day in large slaughterhouses after a lifetime in cages and stables.
in writing. ‒ research shows that cloning techniques are still at a technological stage where the animals involved in several cases suffer physical burdens during the processes themselves, where many of the clones are created with abnormalities, and where too many animals are involved in the processes. in addition, cloning raises particular ethical concerns. i believe that technology is contributing to the objectification of animals, which are more closely reduced to objects rather than being considered as living creatures of nature. it cannot be a human duty to contribute to such manipulation of nature for the benefit of commerce and industry. finally, we still know very little about the impact of cloned foods and foods derived from cloned offspring on human health. the proposal provides for a sufficient waiver of cloning in commercial agriculture, while still allowing for this technology in research contexts that may prove useful in the science of the future. it is a good political balance which i am happy to support.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'procedures and practices in relation to commissioner hearings, lessons learnt from 2014'. i did so primarily because the democratic legitimacy of the european union - contrary to the author's self-righteous claims - is not to be found in trivial procedures and institutional arrangements, but in a total rethinking and revision of the treaties, so as to re-establish cooperation between partners of equal value. i would also point out that the votes in the european parliament and its committees had very little influence on the commission and its appointed members. members and citizens have realised that their efforts were unnecessary and it is worrying for democracy that the 2014 hearings had absolutely no influence on the final vote.
mr. chairman, please. there is a lot of talk in this house about the need to find a european solution to the refugee crisis we are facing. but it does not take into account that there are already european agreements in place to ensure that situations such as those we are experiencing in germany, denmark, sweden and elsewhere in europe do not arise. we should have a common border, under the schengen cooperation, where migrants would be registered and asylum applications processed. we should have a dublin ii regulation that worked properly and where the first safe country was the place where refugees were treated and temporarily resided if they needed protection. these mechanisms are not sustainable, and as long as we cannot keep the agreements already reached at european level, it is completely unrealistic to hope that new agreements can be concluded and kept. the only realistic response to the crisis at the moment is therefore to re-establish national border controls, because then the individual member states can at least manage the refugee crises that have arisen throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge. this is a challenge that can only be solved jointly at european level. leaving each country to its own devices is not the answer for the eu member states or for the thousands of war refugees who have been driven from their homes. it only leads to an unequal distribution of resources between countries and to more sad marches along europe's motorways. we are seeing this development on danish soil these days. the european union must respond to this challenge and find a solution. the key lies first and foremost with the member states. we therefore fully support a pan-european solution as agreed between the eu member states. how such a solution will work in practice, however, must be a matter for the member states which will be involved. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. that is the way it is today and that is the way it will be in the future. the danish exception is also clearly stated in the adopted text.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge. a challenge that can only be solved jointly at european level. leaving each country to its own devices is not the answer for the eu member states or for the thousands of war refugees who have been driven from their homes. it only leads to an unequal distribution of resources between countries and to more sad marches along europe's motorways. we are seeing this development on danish soil these days. the european union must respond to this challenge and find a solution. the key lies first and foremost with the member states. we therefore fully support a pan-european solution as agreed between the eu member states. how such a solution will work in practice, however, must be a matter for the member states which will be involved. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. that is the way it is today and that is the way it will be in the future. the danish exception is also clearly stated in the adopted text.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge. a challenge that can only be solved jointly at european level. leaving each country to its own devices is not the answer for the eu member states or for the thousands of war refugees who have been driven from their homes. it only leads to an unequal distribution of resources between countries and to more sad marches along europe's motorways. we are seeing this development on danish soil these days. the european union must respond to this challenge and find a solution. the key lies first and foremost with the member states. we therefore fully support a pan-european solution as agreed between the eu member states. how such a solution will work in practice, however, must be a matter for the member states which will be involved. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. that is the way it is today and that is the way it will be in the future. the danish exception is also clearly stated in the adopted text.
mr president, mrs mogherini, thank you for your explanation and for your commitment and for mentioning that this conflict is not only the oldest but also one that is very important to resolve, not least if europe is to gain some credibility in this area. so our double standard is very, very clear and is mentioned from many angles. we insist only that international rules be respected when it comes to others, but not when it comes to israel. it is important to say that we are not talking about two equal parties, but one party occupying the other! if you can't tell the difference between the possessed and the possessed, then there's something wrong with your head. i am of course missing not only that we should be told quite clearly that the occupation must be lifted, but also that we should be given a clear idea of the means we actually have to make things work. for years we've been folding our hands and wishing it would work out, we want to build trust, we want people to believe in each other and so on and so forth, and nothing happens! yes, more and more settlements are coming! there is something we can do, and we should be aware of it. we have initially in our green proposals a number of things that can be done, which are remedies, not punishment, not bds, not boycotts. that means that we must take our own laws seriously and live up to them to a completely different extent than we do today, and that we must have a proper policy of separation between israel and the occupied territories, so that attention is not only directed at products from there but also at all the companies involved in the occupation, including universities, banks, everything. if we say that the eu will have nothing to do with them because they are illegal under the eu's own laws, i am quite sure that something will happen. finally, i hope that if this is not taken seriously, we will have another workable strategy that will start the process, rather than just pious wishes and words.
mr president, i would like to thank you. first of all, i would like to thank mrs mogherini for a very interesting introduction. i fully understand the joy of the nuclear agreement with iran, but i must also say that there have been some worrying remarks from the eu. so when it is said that the eu and iran are close friends and that there is mutual respect, i am a little concerned. iran has a big, big human rights problem. in the last few years alone, more than 2 000 executions have been carried out, not to mention the harsh punishments that the regime imposes on people who dare to criticize it. in addition, there is discrimination against women in general in society. it's not something we can just ignore. on the contrary, it is an area which we must give much more attention to and where it is also of vital importance that the representatives of the european union always bring it up and criticize it. when large press conferences are held where the many human rights violations are not mentioned at all, it sends a bad signal. even in the midst of this joy, we must remember all the people who are suffering today under the iranian regime. in conclusion, i would like to thank you very much for your efforts and also for your explanation.
mr president, the european labour market faces a dilemma. some 24 million europeans are unemployed, 12 million europeans are long-term unemployed and 5 million unemployed europeans are under the age of 25. at the same time, there are two million jobs in europe which cannot be filled due to a labour market mismatch and insufficient labour mobility. it is exactly this mismatch that mrs dlabajová has addressed in her report which we are discussing tonight. this mismatch is unfortunate for many europeans who are out of work. it is unfortunate for the businesses which cannot fill their vacancies. it is unfortunate for our societies which miss out on wealth and prosperity. this mismatch in the european labour market causes an uncompetitive european labour market. if we want europe and europeans to prosper in the 21st century, we must create a competitive european labour market, and part of this is to avoid this mismatch. in too many places in europe, the labour market is rigid, even static. too many overly strong protectionist measures have blocked initiative, flexibility and opportunities. ‘good intentions’ can sometimes lead to bad results. we, the representatives of the people of europe, need to rethink labour market policies; we need to promote flexibility; we need to anticipate future needs as regards skills; we need to ensure that when young europeans graduate their skills meet the demands of the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'women's careers in science and the university world and the glass ceilings they face' - a report full of good intentions. although there are still more men than women in science, the proportion of women has increased over the last 10 years. 29% of researchers are now women, compared with 26% in the late 1950s (boston consulting group survey). however, this situation applies only to the scientific sector. in agriculture, 50.1% are women, and in health, 63.1% of all doctorates are held by women. there seems to be a sad tendency to see discrimination everywhere.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report on 'empowering girls in the eu through education' because education is an area where decisions should be taken solely by the member states. article 165 does not allow the european union, and even less the femm committee, to interfere in the training programmes of the member states.
in writing. ‒ europe is facing a huge humanitarian challenge. a challenge that can only be solved jointly at european level. leaving each country to its own devices is not the answer for the eu member states or for the thousands of war refugees who have been driven from their homes. it only leads to an unequal distribution of resources between countries and to more sad marches along europe's motorways. we are seeing this development on danish soil these days. the european union must respond to this challenge and find a solution. the key lies first and foremost with the member states. we therefore fully support a pan-european solution as agreed between the eu member states. how such a solution will work in practice, however, must be a matter for the member states which will be involved. denmark has and will continue to have a clear exception in the area of refugee and asylum policy. that is the way it is today and that is the way it will be in the future. the danish exception is also clearly stated in the adopted text.
in writing. agriculture in europe is in the most serious crisis in many years. the european farmers as a group of businesses are paying the price of the sanctions in connection with the russian crisis, and it should be added that the changes in the milk sector have meant that many milk producers have had completely changed conditions for their activities. as if that were not enough, some countries, such as denmark, are adding a crucial dent to their farmers by implementing eu rules in this area much more strictly than their neighbours. the agricultural crisis is also a crisis for the peripheral regions of europe, where agriculture is a very important occupation in terms of jobs, economy and culture. the european agricultural sector is thus facing a number of challenges and one may ask whether it is too late to address these challenges and whether the storage of agricultural products in order to stabilise the market is a good idea... it may simply prolong the problem.
madam president, i wish to raise a point on the wednesday part of the agenda, referring to what you said earlier on our upcoming vote on the calendar. the deadline for tabling amendments is tomorrow, and the ecr group has submitted an amendment limiting the number of days in a strasbourg session from four to three. that has been deemed inadmissible by mr schultz without any clear reasoning. one hour ago i received an email in which somebody from parliament’s administration stated that this would be contrary to the case-law on the protocol. i do not think, in the light of the sensitivity and the political importance of this issue, that that is a well-reasoned justification for deeming an amendment inadmissible. i would therefore like to request that the presidency comes with a much more in-depth analysis of the true impact of the court decision of 2012 on what we can and cannot do in this chamber in respect of amending the calendar, because without a strategic in-depth analysis, it makes no sense for us to vote on the calendar or to be encouraged to amend it.
mr. chairman, please. i cannot decide which is more embarrassing: that a manufacturer like volkswagen market itself as environmentally friendly and turns out to be a lie, or that it is the americans who uncover the fraud. the european system has certainly spent lots of euros, millions of euros, in the name of the environment, but to what benefit? the executives of volkswagen are rewarded with large severance payments, and the consumers pay. the established eu system has failed. the european consumers have been deceived and there are only losers in this case. the only winners are the executives who get their fat severance pay. but what about the future? how can we control the cars? should a "travel team" be set up to check all cars? which manufacturers can keep up with the figures they give? i don't think anyone can. if it turns out that the commission knew, then there must be consequences and heads must roll.
mr president, i want to raise a point concerning the first vote on today’s voting list, on the calendar. as you can see, there will be no vote, because none of the amendments presented were deemed admissible. i have been asking for more than a week now for a reason why the proposal from the ecr group, to limit the strasbourg part-sessions from four to three days, would be inadmissible according to mr schultz. he refers to a verdict from the european court of justice from 2012, but that says nothing about the length of the part-sessions here. therefore i would like to request either that we vote on the amendment presented by the ecr or that we have an in-depth analysis so that we can actually know within what framework we can present the amendments according to the calendar. it makes no sense for this house to approve a calendar if we are not entitled to amend it. (applause)
mr president, could we have the reason in writing? that has not been presented to us. i would like to see from the legal service the reason why this should be inadmissible. so if you just pass that to our office we would appreciate that.
in writing. ‒ it is important that consumers and smes have good access to cross-border debt recovery. this is why the eu adopted in 2009 a small claims procedure that makes it easier for businesses and consumers to recover small amounts across borders, avoiding lengthy litigation and high legal costs. this scheme will, among other things, extend the regulation to allow the small claims procedure to be used for amounts up to eur 5 000. all in all, it is a proposal that saves time and money for businesses and citizens. that is why we fully support the regulation. denmark has an exception in this area, but hopefully the danish voters will vote in december to change the danish reservation of rights to an optional system. denmark will thereby be able to participate in this regulation.
in writing. ‒ it is important that consumers and smes have good access to cross-border debt. this is why the eu adopted in 2009 a small claims procedure that makes it easier for businesses and consumers to recover small amounts across borders, avoiding lengthy litigation and high legal costs. this scheme will, among other things, extend the regulation to allow the small claims procedure to be used for amounts up to eur 5 000. all in all, it is a proposal that saves time and money for businesses and citizens. that is why we fully support the regulation. denmark has an exception in this area, but hopefully the danish voters will decide by december to change the danish reservation of rights to an optional system. denmark will thereby be able to participate in this regulation:
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is easy to feel that the financial crisis has almost been forgotten. a false capital market, as the commission proposes, would mean a revival of the worst speculative tricks and at the same time give new life to the unregulated shadow banks that were the main cause of the 2008 financial crisis. of course we must make it easier for smes to obtain finance, we can all agree on that, but the lack of finance is primarily due to the eu's economic austerity policy, which has created so much poverty and has stifled all growth and demand. if the commission really wants to help smes, then drop the doctrine of cuts. a capital markets union will only benefit investment banks and speculators who profit from the misfortune of others. the society needs investment and tight controls on the financial world. we don't need another financial crisis.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his presentation today. in light of the financial crisis in europe, we need at least two things. we need growth and jobs by increasing investment and access to capital, but we also need to ensure financial stability in europe. the capital markets union can help provide both if it is correctly handled. the financial crisis which continues to affect europe has its roots, as we all have to remember, in bad, irresponsible financial products and greed in the financial sector. in many countries it has also led to a real estate bubble, and that is something we have to bear in mind. the answer, in terms of preventing future crises also must be found in identifying responsible financial products and in ensuring the systemic surveillance of the whole financial system. i want you to focus on covered bonds: they are secure; they are a cheap and transparent tool for financing loans, for consumers and smes and for long-term investments. so i agree with the commission that is absolutely necessary to initiate a consultation on the issue of covered bonds, and i welcome the process that is now on the way. but i truly fear that the commission will lack focus and commitment. i therefore ask you, commissioner: how will the commission make sure that covered bonds are maintained as a valid choice for financing? will the commission ensure that covered bonds are addressed independently when different types of loans are rated for risks? and will the commission work with this parliament to ensure that safe and affordable covered bonds are safeguarded with the capital markets union and made available to all europeans? the consultation must not be a dead end: it has to lead to something important. commissioner, do you agree that we need real legislation to ensure that the market offers consumers the cheapest and most transparent loans, and that this market could also, of course, include covered bonds? i need to hear what you will do with the covered bonds discussion.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the nord stream ii project is vital for europe’s future energy market and for the third energy package and the energy union. russia will be a key energy partner for the eu for decades to come. we are essentially interdependent and this should inform our deliberations on key infrastructure projects. but russia and its leading gas exporter, gazprom, have openly objected to eu efforts to liberalise energy markets and actively sought to undermine the diversification strategy. so we have every reason to bring the utmost scrutiny to bear on their proposals. as you know, mr arias cañete, parliament is working on goals and objectives for the future energy union in europe. i would like to hear your assessment about how the eu might proceed with discussions on nord stream ii in the light of the european energy union’s guiding principles. for instance, commissioner, can you tell us how many eu nations will conduct strategic reviews of the future nord stream expansion to assess the strategic and geopolitical implications of this project? i believe that most countries merely conduct environmental impact assessments, but these do not capture the broader political implications of critical energy infrastructure projects. therefore, i am calling on the commission to enter into dialogue with the relevant member states and to tell parliament how many of them undertake geopolitical assessments of critical infrastructure. i would also like to know how the commission approaches these questions and to ask it to conduct and publish a europe-wide strategic and geopolitical study on the implications of an austrian pipeline, particularly its impact on the european neighbourhood policy and the policy towards ukraine.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. north stream is not to be expanded. that's as simple as it gets. our energy union must be based on solidarity, cooperation and renewable energy, and north stream represents the complete opposite of these objectives. north stream ii will bypass our baltic neighbours and poland and will isolate ukraine completely. moreover, there is no need for it when about half of the current capacity of north stream is not being used! it will only strengthen and reward putin and weaken europe putin, who has invaded ukraine and is now bombing syria. he doesn't deserve any reward. the expansion of north stream will only increase, prolong and worsen our dependence on russian gas. instead, our energy investments must be spent on renewable energy, on energy efficiency and on building a real and genuine internal european energy market, and i hope the commissioner will do everything in his power to make that happen.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the spanish government should introduce real 'datio in solutum' in the mortgage law, which means that borrowers are exempted from further debt servicing in the event that the property is returned to the bank. however, i do not think that the problem is of a cross-border nature, which is why i do not think that there is a need for eu legislation. the spanish government is responsible. that is why i cannot support paragraph 7 of the text.
the alde group is not in favour of this. mr president, when the alde group presented a resolution in april 2013 saying that we should abolish roaming charges in europe, we were met with a lot of scepticism here in parliament, and we were met with a lot of excitement in the industry and some excitement in some of the governments of the member states. we were accused of wanting to break up the current telecommunications package, of making too much of a dent in the market and of being un-liberal in general. how could a liberal group come up with such a proposal? at the same time, we were told that the single market was no longer just about roaming charges. first of all, of course, if we want a single market, we have to make some regulations so that we have a common playing field. and the absurd thing is that we have a single market in a lot of areas in europe, but the greatest growth potential we do not have a real single market for today. and that is why the purpose of this is to create a single market for digital services, because the overall purpose is to create growth and jobs in europe. we can only do this by reducing the cost of free movement and by ensuring that we have a common playing field in europe. i am proud and happy that we have now adopted a common playing field for roaming, that we have abolished roaming charges. i'm also glad that we're getting the first safeguards for an open internet. we must remember that if this deal fails, there is nothing in europe. we could have wished we could have gone further and wanted more, but this is the first step towards creating an internal market which guarantees consumer rights and which also ensures a high level of consumer protection. it is a huge step forward for europe, for citizens and for businesses alike, and not least for the basis for boosting growth and jobs in one of the biggest potential growth areas we have in the coming years, namely the digital single market.
mr president, i didn’t ask for the floor to ask mr tošenovský the question; i asked for the floor so i could ask ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to ask you a question, mr president. i would like to know whether the blue card is working in this debate or whether the blue card is not working. can we ask each other questions, or can we not ask each other questions? this is completely absurd, this is not a technical problem. i know that it is convenient for the president to say that this is a technical problem and the president should not interrupt me, i have the right to raise this point of order! it is the president's task to steer this debate with the instruments provided for in the rules of procedure. and one of the instruments provided for in the rules of procedure is the blue card. and it's not a technical issue. it's the president's problem if he can't control it. but at least we as members of parliament have the right to know whether the map is part of that debate or whether the map is not part of that debate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking rapporteur pilar del castillo vera and also the shadow rapporteurs for a very good result in the negotiations. europe needs more growth and employment, and therefore we also need a common internal market for telecommunications services. we haven't had that, we're about to have that. no one thought we could push the club that has used roaming charges as a milk machine on consumers in europe. there is also reason to thank the small and mediumsized enterprises. we live in a global digital age, and this benefits the single market for smes. i can hear that not everyone is equally happy with what has happened on net neutrality. i think we should listen to what the commissioner has said today. and after all, this is the first time we've had a safeguard in our legislation.
i have to say, madam president, when we had the debate this morning, there were a number of colleagues who felt that the agreement on the telecommunications package was not sufficient. the agreement on the end date for roaming came far too late in 2017, and rightly so parliament proposed in its time december 2015 and the section on net neutrality was by no means enough. it was argued that the agreement would even water down the current net neutrality. with that argument they used the agreement to table a number of amendments. the only thing to say is that if all those amendments - or rather, if just one of them had been adopted - the agreement would have fallen and we would have had nothing. we had no roaming, no end date and not a single word in european legislation on net neutrality. and that is why i voted against those amendments, despite...
in writing. ‒ after promising to abolish roaming charges by 2014, then 2015, here's a new promise for... summer 2017. this agreement does not live up to the commitments made to the citizens in 2011. europe could have been a truly interconnected continent and this agreement could have been truly historic. it should have provided for the immediate, total and unconditional abolition of roaming charges and a clear definition of net neutrality. unfortunately, that's not the case. the access providers are still buying time, and are already changing their tariff scales to make provision for the shortfall, in particular by imposing all-inclusive packages. thus, all internet users are charged a fee, even though most of them have never travelled abroad and do not even know what roaming costs are. by giving way to private operators, the union is forgetting that the internet does not belong to the access providers, but to the common intangible heritage of humanity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i would like to address the high representative. i am sure that this conflict is in your core address and you have issued a lot of statements again but, again as i heard it now, you are treating the two partners as they are equal. you do not mention the word occupation with one single word. if we do not address the occupation, nothing will happen and the credibility of this house and the eu institutions will vanish. since you have been appointed the situation on the ground has gone from very bad to worse, and it can get even worse. i do not hold you responsible for the decade—long violence on the ground, but i do hold you accountable for not taking the tangible and meaningful steps within your reach. why have you further delayed the publication of the eu guidelines on the labelling of products for the settlers? why have you not taken any visible actions in response to the destruction of eu and member state-funded projects in area c? which steps have you taken to create a blacklist of violent settlers and ban their entry – a measure that has been raised by many member states many times in recent years? why have we not heard any public statement from your side regarding israel’s blacklisting of an entire institution, this parliament, for granting access to the poor people in gaza? there is a whole range of actions that could be taken by brussels and yourself immediately and independently from ongoing negotiations. i urge you to now address this occupation. let me, last but not least, mention a strong and efficient step to take within eu existing legislation: a consequent differentiation between israel and the illegal settlements where we cut all collaboration with settlers and settlements. this differentiation is not a boycott; it is a legal means which could boost real credible negotiations.
blue-card question.– two questions. i was a little bit surprised – do you think it is hamas who has caused us to talk about and mention the occupation? and calling for the occupation to be part of the solution, because if we do not do that, i think that it is the whole of international society, including the us, recognising that this is an occupation. secondly, when you talk about ‘unconditional’, do you say when we, the international society, ask israel to stop the illegal settlement building, is that unfair when we call for a true negotiation?
madam chairman! larvae, insects, fungi and algae. all of this is something we will have to eat a lot more of in europe in the future for the sake of the earth's resources. new foods, they're called. consumers expect food sold on the eu's internal market to be safe and clearly labelled, even if it is new. this is the whole idea behind the new proposal we are voting on today. we are also voting for a simplified authorization procedure so that, for example, insects can be authorized as a new source of protein. all very well. the problem is that we're also operating with new technologies in relation to our food. unfortunately, we have not quite reached the end of the road here. the rules on nanotechnology, for example, are not sufficiently incorporated in this legislation. it's a bit sad that we don't finish the job completely when we're already at it. food security is the first priority for us social democrats.
in writing. air pollution is a problem in europe that must be taken seriously. i am concerned, however, with how we are going to bring the problem to life. the agricultural sector is being challenged enormously by this air package. i am a farmer myself and therefore i know how danish agriculture is constantly being pressured by new legislation. this is despite the fact that the danish agricultural sector has been extremely good at doing its part to protect the environment. yet the sector is being punished. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the ammonia levels in the atmosphere are not reduced. this means that the air in denmark is still polluted, while we are still faced with unequal conditions of competition. it's not fair. we'll have to pull in packs. it is not helpful for a small country like denmark to have to take the heavy lifting. neither environmentally nor competitively. at the same time, methane reduction targets also threaten agriculture with double regulation, as such targets already exist and need to be renegotiated within the framework of climate policy. it is also a distortion, which to me is to see more harm than good. we cannot sacrifice the lives and businesses of hardworking people for the sake of symbolism.
in writing. ‒ we had been working with the ecr group for several weeks on an alternative resolution to the fernandez-deprez proposal on the draft budget for 2016. i voted with my group, particularly in view of the efforts we are asking the commission to make in favour of youth employment. i have been vigilant about certain specific budget lines. for example, support must be given, through the daphne programme, to the continuing funding of the emergency hotline (116000) for missing children. i also spoke in favour of a road map for a single seat for the european parliament, which would bring substantial savings. i have also spoken out against the millions of euros of public money spent on cruel spectacles in which animals are deliberately injured and killed: europe in crisis certainly has better things to do with the money that taxpayers entrust to it!
in writing. ‒ commission president juncker had committed to reforming the gmo evaluation process so that it was finally serious and effective. he didn't do it. in any event, the management of health risks must be a matter for the sovereignty of the states and only of the states. the european commission and efsa are by nature too open to the influence of the rich global agrochemical industry, including the producers of genetically modified organisms and other poisons of the world. i fight against the right to produce and sell anything, without limitation and without precautions. like the disasters caused by pesticides, the harmfulness of gmos has been demonstrated time and again by courageous independent researchers around the world. yes, we must demand a ban on the trade and open cultivation of gmos, otherwise they will be spread throughout our environment and the food chain. under pressure from citizens, national governments can and must prevent this outrageous takeover by patent holders and other 'producers' of living things over nature and our health.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the financing of large enterprises is often not the big problem. they have the possibility of entering the stock market, they have the possibility of issuing corporate bonds, but when we talk about small and mediumsized enterprises, we know that it is important that they have access to markets. we also know that it is important to combat administrative burdens, also here in the house, but the most important thing is actually to obtain financing, and in addition to the financial and banking crises we know that the banking market has been frozen for many of our small and mediumsized enterprises. we have also worked on this in this parliament. we have worked on both cosme and horizon 2020, but i have to say that the funds allocated to these areas are just a drop in the bucket. the need for funding is of a different order. what i'm trying to say with this is that public money is not enough! we need the private money to be unlocked and put to work. there is no doubt that the capital markets directive and also the juncker investment plan are a good step in the right direction, where we are getting 21 billion euro to 315. but we need to open up our pension funds in europe. they've got a huge amount of money that needs to be put to work, and we need to look at some securities so we can get this money to work.
i have to say, madam president, i'm not going to let you do this. we like to talk a lot about animal welfare here in the eu, but we have a hard time doing it. i mean, we have an obligation to ensure that our animals can live good, safe, pain-free lives. our laws must ensure that, our animal welfare strategy must promote that. yet we see every day that animal welfare legislation is being violated in the eu by the member states. this is the case, for example, in denmark, where up to 99% of all piglets have their tails cut off because of poor animal welfare. commissioner, i'm tired of waiting! i therefore ask you out of the blue: when will the countries that systematically violate eu animal welfare legislation be prosecuted? when will the commission put forward legislative proposals for a maximum of eight hours of transport for live animals, which over a million citizens here in europe have demanded? finally, what is the point of an animal welfare strategy if the commission is not prepared to intervene and take action when animal welfare laws are violated?
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commission for the excellent work done in this report, which helps to illustrate the scale of the challenge ahead of us. europe needs a holistic approach to achieving an energy union. we need integrated solutions in order to get more renewables into the energy mix, cut our carbon footprint and use scarce energy supplies in the most efficient way. doing so will cut costs for business and make europe more competitive, reduce energy bills for ordinary citizens and help us innovate to become world leaders in the energy technologies of the future. but many eu countries have back—pedalled on even modest objectives and have then gone on to block efforts to strengthen europe’s ambition. this cannot continue if we are to deliver on a true energy union. what i want to emphasise today is that we too, as parliament, need to step up to this challenge. in the own-initiative report on the energy union, which we will hopefully adopt next part-session, we call for parliament to play an active role in the governance of the energy union. but clearly, we can only play this role if we are able to work together to find common ground on the crucial issues which often divide us. this is a priority for me and my group: looking to find pragmatic approaches, but also approaches that maintain our ambition and determination to deliver the fundamental changes that energy union must deliver over the coming years. i would again like to thank vice-president šefčovič for all the hard work, and clearly i hope that parliament is also up to the challenge of achieving a true energy union.
mr president, to realise the full potential of the energy union, both strong regulatory powers and ambitious targets are needed. we need a strong, fully-staffed and powerful acer that can break down the barriers between europe’s energy silos and tackle energy bottlenecks. but so far, it seems to me, the commission has kept us guessing so far as to what, how and when these powers will come to acer. acer is woefully understaffed to fulfil even its present duties, let alone the new task that will follow from the energy union. help has come with the result of the budget compromise. it is a start, but it does not really solve the problem in any meaningful way. i therefore ask the vice-president once again: what new cross-border regulatory powers is the commission ready to give acer? and finally, a word on energy efficiency: as you know, this parliament has on several occasions backed a 40% energy efficiency target for 2030. as such, i find it unacceptable that the commission has apparently now decided to only model for 27-33% energy efficiency for upcoming legislative proposals. if we are to make a real impact – if we are to truly develop an energy union – we have to be both ambitious and visionary. mr commissioner, will you ensure that the commission heeds the call of this parliament and ensures modelling for a 40% energy efficiency target for 2030?
in writing. ‒ yes, poverty, especially that of children and young adults, must be tackled. by attacking the root of evil, not just its effects. the union is in the worst position to claim to be leading this fight. despite the miraculous promises of prosperity sold with each new european treaty, mass unemployment has settled in almost all of europe, the middle classes are disappearing and most of our children are indeed paying socially, psychologically and culturally dearly for the economic, monetary and institutional choices made in europe over the last thirty years. it is by returning several essential competences to the hands of our states, as the united kingdom is asking for itself, and by abandoning its integrationist project, whose failure is obvious, and its interference even in the privacy of citizens, that the european union will best serve the europeans.
in writing. ‒ this report focuses on support for certain so-called 'marginalised' communities or groups, such as roma communities, refugees and asylum seekers, victims of racism or even women, all of whom are strangely lined up as in a catalogue. i voted against it. equal rights and solidarity are core values for us. if the intention is commendable, the presentation and proposals may be questionable. there is no definition of what constitutes a 'marginalized group' in the eu sense. nor is there much understanding of the added value of european centralisation in the definition of these funded programmes, like any so-called 'european' expenditure by the member states.
in writing. ‒ once again, the union is gradually trying to take the place of sovereign states in an international organisation, as it did in the wto, for example. the eu does not have a foreign policy of its own, it is not a state and does not have to become one, although it has legal personality, because it does not have a single european people. europe is a rich continent of its 28 nations, which, until proven otherwise, do not intend to merge into one, but to cooperate as much as possible while respecting their respective identities. in the united nations general assembly and the security council, only the representatives and diplomats of our nations have a legitimate place.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not the commission's intention to take any action to prevent fraud. that money was supposed to go to our hospitals, schools and nursing homes. instead, they funnel billions into secret accounts in tax havens. there must be consequences and severe penalties for countries, companies and individuals who commit tax evasion. the socialist group therefore also makes clear and concrete proposals: companies which systematically commit tax fraud should be able to have their business licences revoked. they simply must not be allowed to operate in the eu. anyone who opposes tax evasion needs to back up. the countries which profit from tax evasion must also be punished much more severely. as the rules are today, tax haven countries can only be required to collect the difference between the illegally low tax rates they have offered to some companies and the tax rates that apply to all of us. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the taxpayers' money is not used to finance the taxation of the european union. the tax-benefiting countries thus get both new businesses and more jobs and a considerable additional tax revenue. it's not a punishment, it's a kinder egg, three good things in one nice little package, and of course it has to stop. that is why we are also proposing that the tax owed should go not to the tax-benefiting country but to the other member states which were cheated of jobs and tax revenue.
the commission is not i am not sure that this is the case. health and safety at work is one of the areas where the eu is making a tangible and positive difference for ordinary people across europe. there is a need to address both new and existing risks. every year more than 150 000 people die from work-related diseases and accidents, and millions of people suffer from musculoskeletal disorders, mental problems, asbestos-related consequences and a host of other work-related disorders. this is not a good situation for workers, for companies or for the depleted public treasury. in the process of negotiating the report in the house i have also seen a very positive attitude towards all these rules across political lines in this parliament. i would therefore also like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their very good cooperation on this report. there are many good reasons to be ambitious when it comes to the working environment. in the long run, there is no doubt that we all win by taking an ambitious approach. workers become more productive, which is clearly a benefit to themselves and the companies they work for. older workers are not involuntarily forced out of the labour market because of ill health, and national social security systems are becoming more sustainable. and last but not least, we can help the millions of european workers who suffer from a poor working environment. in fact, i think the commission has done a good job of identifying a lot of the risks that need to be addressed. but if those risks are to be managed, it is obvious that concrete action is needed. i think, however, that the commission has been a little more cautious in recent years. however, i have also noted with great satisfaction that mrs thyssen has a great deal of emphasis on the importance of this area. first of all, there is a need for much better protection of european workers against exposure to carcinogens. we therefore want to see more binding occupational exposure limit values added to reduce the number of work-related cancers. secondly, we need to put forward a proposal for a comprehensive approach to musculoskeletal disorders, so that we can ensure that the causes of these disorders are prevented more effectively. we also need to start paying more attention to the changing forms of work and new technologies that are shaping the european labour market. in particular, we know that precarious work all too often has negative consequences for the working environment of the employees, just as posted workers are all too often treated worse than their colleagues in the countries where they are going to work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, asbestos is still a major problem in europe. to take a frightening example, we now see in denmark, where i come from, that women who have washed their husbands' work clothes are now being struck by lung cancer. it can hardly be stressed enough how important it is that we ensure that these fates do not befall another generation in europe. the last point i would like to make is the need to address psychosocial risks which can lead to stress, burnout and depression, for example. the human impact is enormous and the actual cost has just been accounted for. it says that it actually costs 600 billion euros a year in europe, if you include the cost of absence, loss of productivity and other costs for social services and treatment. that is a lot of money! as i said, there are many important points to be made, but i must stop here.
the commission is not i would like to thank you, mr president, for a very good debate and for the strong support for the main lines of the report. it is a great thing to see and i am sure that we can find a good common ground in the most important areas. this is particularly true, of course, because we all have something to gain by doing even better than we are doing today. i am very much looking forward to seeing how the commission intends to implement the comprehensive evaluation of european occupational safety and health regulations which has just been completed. in my view, there is no doubt that there is a need for new legislation and for the revision of existing rules on certain points. it is important that all workers have the right to the best possible protection, regardless of the size of the undertaking. thank you very much for the debate today.
in writing. ‒ we are pleased that a compromise has now been reached with the support of an overwhelming majority in both the council and the european parliament. however, we will not vote for or against the eu budget for 2016. the budget presented fully uses the budgetary envelope until 2020. this leaves the eu ill-equipped to deal with unforeseen events in the period up to 2020. we cannot support this. we recognize that extraordinary efforts are needed to help the hundreds of thousands of refugees who are coming to europe in these months. that is why we have also voted to transfer money to this area within the framework of the existing budget. at the same time, we are firmly convinced that there is no need to increase the budget of the european union. we believe that there must be a re-prioritization within the existing budget, for example by phasing out agricultural aid. we also reiterate our clear position that no additional funds should be allocated to the remuneration of eu staff. finally, we continue to stress the need for new, common and clear rules to be drawn up to ensure better control of the funds made available to members of parliament for office staff, support for european political parties, etc.
in writing. ‒ we are pleased that a compromise has now been reached with the support of an overwhelming majority in both the council and the european parliament. however, we will not vote for or against the eu budget for 2016. the budget presented fully uses the budgetary envelope until 2020. this leaves the eu ill-equipped to deal with unforeseen events in the period up to 2020. we cannot support this. we recognize that extraordinary efforts are needed to help the hundreds of thousands of refugees who are coming to europe in these months. that is why we have also voted to transfer money to this area within the framework of the existing budget. at the same time, we are firmly convinced that there is no need to increase the budget of the european union. we believe that there must be a re-prioritization within the existing budget, for example by phasing out agricultural aid. we also reiterate our clear position that no additional funds should be allocated to the remuneration of eu staff. finally, we continue to stress the need for new, common and clear rules to be drawn up to ensure better control of the funds made available to members of parliament for office staff, support for european political parties, etc.
in writing. ‒ europe has been repeatedly hit by terrorist attacks this year alone. recently, with the terrible attacks in paris, it has become clear that we have to address the root of the problem, radicalization. the terrorists are often european citizens who were born and raised here but have been radicalised and recruited to commit atrocities. this practice must be stopped. we therefore support the report's message on combating radicalisation and recruitment. but we are far from agreeing on all the instruments presented in the report. in spite of this, we have chosen to support the report. we believe that the eu should contribute where it brings european added value, for example by sharing best practice, police cooperation and, not least, pnr. we are, however, opposed to the eu introducing detailed regulations, for example on the management of radicalisation in prisons. we believe that the national authorities know best how to deal with this problem. but we agree that we must learn from each other in europe, that we must stand together and that we must work together against this common evil. that is why we voted in favour of the report and because the signal from the european parliament that we must cooperate in the fight against radicalisation is important.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in favour of enhanced cooperation and the need for strong initiatives in the fight against crossborder crime. several unprecedented waves of attacks have been committed in france, denmark and belgium, by individuals who turned out to be radicalised citizens of a european country or migrants who have taken advantage of the current massive flows of refugees. the recent events in paris show that europe needs, in particular, the permanent reintroduction of border controls, thus the reconstruction of customs infrastructures (which may take five years), better cooperation and exchange of data between intra-european and obviously extra-european intelligence services, and tackling the ideology behind these acts. i believe that this fight requires, in particular, in the long term, that we rediscover the will and the capacity to assimilate each and every one, whatever their origin or religion, that is to say to welcome them generously into our culture, our values, our history and our common national project. i also believe that women and girls, here and wherever necessary, must be strongly supported and encouraged to rebel against the daily oppression of the family or society and to start a revolution of minds.
in writing. ‒ europe has been repeatedly hit by terrorist attacks this year alone. recently, with the terrible attacks in paris, it has become clear that we have to address the root of the problem, radicalization. the terrorists are often european citizens who were born and raised here but have been radicalised and recruited to commit atrocities. this practice must be stopped. we therefore support the report's message on combating radicalisation and recruitment. but we are far from agreeing on all the instruments presented in the report. in spite of this, we have chosen to support the report. we believe that the eu should contribute where it brings european added value, for example by sharing best practice, police cooperation and, not least, pnr. we are, however, opposed to the eu introducing detailed regulations, for example on the management of radicalisation in prisons. we believe that the national authorities know best how to deal with this problem. but we agree that we must learn from each other in europe, that we must stand together and that we must work together against this common evil. that is why we voted in favour of the report and because the signal from the european parliament that we must cooperate in the fight against radicalisation is important.
in writing. ‒ europe has been repeatedly hit by terrorist attacks this year alone. recently, with the terrible attacks in paris, it has become clear that we have to address the root of the problem, radicalization. the terrorists are often european citizens who were born and raised here but who have been radicalised and recruited to commit atrocities. this practice must be stopped. we therefore support the report's message on combating radicalisation and recruitment. but we are far from agreeing on all the instruments presented in the report. in spite of this, we have chosen to support the report. we believe that the eu should contribute where it brings european added value, for example by sharing best practice, police cooperation and, not least, pnr. we are, however, opposed to the eu introducing detailed regulations, for example on the management of radicalisation in prisons. we believe that the national authorities know best how to deal with this problem. but we agree that we must learn from each other in europe, that we must stand together and that we must work together against this common evil. that is why we voted in favour of the report and because the signal from the european parliament that we must cooperate in the fight against radicalisation is important.
in writing. ‒ once again, the union wants to meddle in what does not concern it and risks undermining what our democracies have built very well without it. for a long time now, the scandinavian countries - and i am thinking of my country, denmark in particular - have been considered a social model for the whole world: 1.6% of our country's national wealth is devoted to labour market policies alone, with clear effects on the health of danish workers (the best rates in europe), a culture of dialogue and social compromise, continuous training for employees, the inclusion of post-traumatic stress in the list of occupational diseases entitling to compensation, etc. it is time for the institutions in brussels to realise that their one-size-fits-all suits for 28 different nations do not fit the real europe and fail systematically.
in writing. ‒ our support for the report should be seen as support for respect for human rights and the principle of individual complaint. not as an unconditional support for frontex to set up an individual complaint mechanism. we recognise that some member states are not good enough at respecting human rights when controlling their external borders and that the eu should act against this. but setting up an individual complaint mechanism by frontex is not necessarily the best or the right solution. if at any time the commission makes a proposal for frontex to set up such a complaints mechanism, we will assess the specific proposal, including the economic, legal and sovereignty implications of such a proposal, and then take a position. the control of the eu's external borders is a national matter and therefore we also believe that such an individual complaint mechanism should operate within the member states, not as part of frontex.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, first let me thank the rapporteur and the other shadows for their hard work and good cooperation on this energy union file. i would personally gladly have seen even more emphasis on the role of energy efficiency and renewables in the future european energy mix, but i find that we have ended up with a constructive text which has, in most respects, found the right balance between pragmatism and ambition. on governance, a clear emphasis should be given to parliament’s role in this process and the need for member states’ progress on implementation to be carefully scrutinised. i am also happy that we have laid the groundwork for taking a more holistic and, in my view, ambitious approach to the integration of energy systems and solutions. particularly on heating and cooling, we have emphasised the important role of integrating technologies and solutions to find the most efficient way of keeping warm or keeping cool. this is absolutely crucial in the context of our common energy security and solidarity. finally, i would like to remind colleagues here today of how far we have come and how important our role as parliamentarians is in this debate. if we are to play a role in the future governance, we have to demonstrate also that we can act responsibly and work with the common good in mind. i very much hope that we together, in this european parliament, are able to adopt this crucial report tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take two blue-card questions under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– let me address the last question first because it all relates to the energy mix. when it comes to nuclear, we had a free vote within the alde group on this specific issue. this also relates somewhat to the first question on efficiency and renewables, because it is clearly stated – and it is a prerogative of all the work we have been doing here over the past year or year and a half – that the energy mix is a sovereign decision for member states. now we can regret this, either of us, but these are the hard facts. these are the political realities with which we have to work, and based upon this reality i think that we have actually achieved quite a good result with this text on the table right now. i would personally have preferred even more emphasis on efficiency and on renewables, but at the same time clearly acknowledging what other groups and groupings have meant and have taken as a position on this. all this is to say that, with all these conditions on the table, i think we have managed to reach quite a satisfactory outcome. i hope it will be passed tomorrow.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe badly needs an energy union and badly needs a single market for electricity. better interconnectors are a prerequisite for both the energy union and the internal market for electricity. the eriksson report is a good contribution to the focus on a target of at least 10% interconnectors and it must of course be seen in close connection with the report on the energy union. i would like to thank mr eriksson for having obtained a large majority in parliament for this report, but also thank my colleagues in the epp group for their strong support for the report. better interconnection will mean better security of supply and cheaper consumer prices for electricity for our citizens and for our businesses in europe. lower electricity prices make our companies more competitive, and that is what we need: to create growth and jobs in europe. too many young people in southern europe are out of work today, and that is why we need to increase our competitiveness so that we can also compete on the world market. i would also like to thank mr cañete and the eu negotiating team here at cop21 in paris, whom i of course very much welcome, for their influence. there is no doubt that action must be taken now, and i think that at least we now have a good objective to achieve what we want. that also means that if we are to achieve these goals, we must look more at energy efficiency. we must look more closely at creating an internal energy market with more interconnectors, and it is not just a question of getting more interconnection, it is also a question of getting quality so that it can also be used where it is available, and that there are no national interests blocking the flow of electricity from south to north, north to south, west to east and east to west. so all in all, thanks to mr eriksson for a good report which we look forward to being adopted. (the president agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue card answer. mr president, i think that the plan for an energy union in europe is the right way to go. i believe, of course, that the energy mix in the various countries must remain free. i think that more energy efficiency is needed and i would also like us to be more ambitious in this area than it seems.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i'm not going to let you do this. finally, an international climate agreement was reached. finally, the world has been committed to a fossil fuel fight. one of our most visionary projects in this regard is our own project here in the eu: the energy union is a great vision, a strong framework for our climate and energy goals. but without effective regulation to put it into that framework, we will never reach the targets! we know from our own energy regulatory agency, acer, that in 70% of the crossborder electricity links in europe, less than half of the available capacity is being used. we have cables, literally, to water, land and air, and we have an increasing share of renewable energy, yet green energy too seldom reaches beyond the borders of the eu countries. instead, it's just a little more fuel for the local coal and gas power plants, and that's not a very green sustainable future. acer has given us a clear picture of the situation in its annual market report and the conclusion is clear: the energy is there, the capacity is there, the willingness to cooperate between the countries is fundamentally lacking. artificial and real energy bottlenecks are a daily obstacle to the green transition and a gift to the old, polluting power plants. it is time for the commission to tackle this problem, give acer the cross-border competences it needs and ensure that we get not just an energy union in the eu, but a climate and energy union. (the president agreed to answer a blue card question under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer.– i am not sure whether the speaker actually understood my speech, but what i was emphasising was that we need more connections and more regulation about connections in europe, because we need to have a free flow of energy between our european countries. i can also tell the speaker that i also find nord stream 2 a very problematic project; it is something we have to fight for many reasons – geopolitical reasons, environmental reasons, and also reasons relating to the transition of our energy system in the eu. i agree with you on that, but i think you misunderstood part of my speech.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their great effort and excellent work. if luxleaks has showed us anything it is that without transparency we will not get tax justice. without transparency, multinational companies will again and again find ways to avoid paying their taxes, while citizens and small companies pay their taxes and see the big companies hide profits in tax havens. this must stop. therefore, the social democrats have fought for country-by-country reporting. it has to be mandatory. it has to be public. this means that all companies that operate cross-border must publicly report on their profits and the tax that they are paying. it will secure fair competition between small- and medium-sized enterprises and multinational companies, and it will protect our tax base. it will enable all of us to protect the future of our welfare state in europe, and it will deliver tax justice.
madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her statement. like others. i am also very disappointed that we are not discussing the labour mobility package tonight, but that we are just discussing your update on your work on the labour mobility package. last month, commissioner, you gave a speech in dublin, which i read with great interest. in the speech, you elaborate a little on your thoughts on the situation regarding frontier workers. in the speech you said that, after a year of work in another country, the country in which the frontier worker had worked should be financially responsible for the payment of unemployment benefits. the guiding principle behind this is that a frontier worker should receive benefits from the country in which he or she has contributed. this is fair for everybody, you said. i completely agree with this principle. therefore, commissioner, i would like to ask you tonight if you think that this principle – that a person should receive benefits from the country in which he or she has contributed – should apply not only to frontier workers, but to all mobile workers within the eu.
