in writing. i supported the proposal because it also allows eu vessels to fish in the waters of the democratic republic of são tomé and príncipe and supports the fisheries policy there. it is important to expand the opportunities for eu market players.
in writing. i supported the proposal as it is an important agreement of the european union in the indian ocean region and as a result the seychelles is the main partner in this region. the agreement will support the economic development of both mayotte and the seychelles and will create new opportunities for the eu.
in writing. i supported the proposal because i consider cooperation with tunisia to be important in view of the eu enlargement and the changes in tunisia.
in writing. i supported the proposal because it allows member states to decide on their own territory whether to restrict or ban genetically modified organisms, which in turn helps to better plan and implement environmental policy objectives.
in writing. i supported the proposal because these measures and control and monitoring programmes help to ensure that the mediterranean environment is kept in a state of active economic activity.
in writing. we have neglected our commitments under the csdp, the thessaloniki council, the petersberg missions and the helsinki global objective (dating from the 1990s). the european union is therefore powerless and incapable of taking action to help the failing state in libya. however, it is not too late to remedy this defect. in particular, france still has two mistral boats which have not been delivered to russia. considering the current political climate it would be foolish to hand over these ships to russia. however, these vessels could be used as a platform to coordinate conflict resolution in the mediterranean area. under the csdp, the acquisition of these vessels will form a solid basis for the union's defence forces. ceterum censeo, we must be up to the task.
i would like to congratulate latvia's neighbours with all my heart, as they now have the great presidency of the european union. we have also been very pleased to see that latvia has indeed followed these principles in its development in recent years: it has increased its competitiveness, it has increased the confidence of its people. and i think estonia and latvia are also working very hard together on the main objectives of your presidency and digital development to overcome all the obstacles that we are seeing at the moment. it's been said here that the council has some very big problems right now. we are ready, the commission is ready, so we very much hope that latvia will also take these matters to the council so that we can start a trialogue on data protection issues. i am very pleased to see that latvia has planned a lot of events like this where different countries can come together in riga and exchange experiences and i am very much looking forward to the meeting on the digital development action plan. i hope so. (interruption)
mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister how happy i am that latvia is here as a european leader because, madam prime minister, your country has not only overcome its occupation in times past, but it has indeed proven how to come out of economic crisis, how to conduct structural reforms and how to balance the budget and regenerate growth. your predecessor, mr dombrovskis, has proven that this is doable, and that austerity and growth are not exclusive but are actually complementary. your task is to resist attempts to transform the stability pact into a sort of flexibility pact. it is crucial for latvia to keep the eu united in relations with ukraine and russia, because our unity and consistency are the only means to enhance the eu’s political impact and moral credibility. even limited sanctions have had a greater effect than expected. now there is a temptation to relax them, even before the minsk agreements have been fully implemented. i think this is, above all, a battle of nerves, and i trust that latvians have got strong nerves. one of the latvian priorities should be to overcome the fragmentation of the digital single market. the eu needs an ambitious strategy on clearing the main bottlenecks like data protection, authors’ rights, applying common european sales law, achieving agreements on the telecom single market, and the rest. finally, i hope that the riga summit in may will send our eastern partners – which have successfully done their homework, of course – a clear message on that eu perspective, and that the visa-free regime with georgia could also be agreed to. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)
blue-card answer. – i think it is true about balancing economic policy. i am happy that latvia and estonia have not expanded – this is easier for us. it was easier to come out of the economic crisis. but there are differences of course. we have solidarity with greece. greece is continuing its reforms, hopefully, and we look forward to greece overcoming its debt problems with the solidarity of the european union.
in writing. latvia's presidency of the european union will provide an opportunity to take a long step forward in the development of the eu's eastern partnership. by the time of the eu's eastern partnership summit in riga in may, all eu member states should ratify the association agreements with ukraine, moldova and georgia so that they can enter into force in full. the eu also needs to move forward with visa-free travel for ukraine and georgia for the eu's eastern partnership summit, as it did for moldova last year. the eu is also committed to the development of a common defence policy and to the implementation of the eu's common security and defence policy. the eu has also been active in the field of human rights in the past. so it's good to move on from this surface. the latvian presidency of the eu will be successful in this and other areas. latvia has done a lot in recent years - emerging from economic difficulties, fulfilling the criteria for joining the euro and becoming an oecd candidate country.
the question of the blue card. there is still a military conflict in eastern europe and, as you know, the key to resolving it lies with russia. do you, mr kukan, see any serious reason to discuss the easing of sanctions against russia in the european union at this time, given that nothing has really changed in eastern ukraine, but on the contrary, the ceasefire has been broken 84 times in the last 24 hours?
mr president, the high representative made a very good introduction, calling for the recovery of european identity. i very much hope, ms mogherini, that this new spirit of change which has emerged from the paris demonstrations might be transferred into practical actions, so we look forward to your determined leadership on security and defence matters. i would like you to focus among other things on cyber-defence capabilities. i expect the commission to urge member states to develop their respective cyber-defence strategies and to coordinate them in doing so, using the european defence agency to create joint eu cyber-defence potential. however, the fundamental issue for any practical progress on security and defence methods is the economic basis. the first victims of the economic crisis were defence budgets, and while russia has been modernising its army and has increased military expenditure to 4.5% of gdp – and the same is true for china – the figure in most eu member states has plummeted far below 2%. there is no way to avoid or postpone systematic recovery of the eu’s defence capability. one problem that the european council in june this year needs to address is the practical application of treaty article 42(7) – the mutual defence clause – especially in the new security situation. could it be used also in case of cyber-attacks against vital strategic infrastructures? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – we are speaking about european identity – it is not eu identity only. it is based upon a common european cultural heritage, our tradition, our culture and first of all, spirit of solidarity. i think the paris demonstrations took place in the spirit of solidarity, not regarding anyone or anybody.
madam president, many colleagues have already touched upon our concerns over the humanitarian situation in ukraine, from these terrible killings of civilians in a bus to the prospect of a frozen conflict in eastern ukraine, so i would like to point out a different topic. it is important for ukraine, especially in this difficult situation, to move forward with reforms. restoring democratic legitimacy and economic growth, the adoption of anti-corruption laws and the creation of the anti-corruption bureau are steps in the right direction. but more needs to be done to restore citizens’ trust in the legal system, public authorities and democracy. given the challenges ahead, the eu support group for ukraine has a crucial role to play in identifying the areas where technical assistance is needed for the implementation of a reform programme. so i would like to ask the high representative: is the allocation of staff and resources enough for the support group to fulfil its mission in ukraine? finally, i would like to stress that the eu should express clear opposition to lifting sanctions against russia before clear conditions are met.
ukraine's number one concern is clearly the security situation. yesterday, in the last 24 hours, the so-called separatists in eastern ukraine violated the ceasefire 84 times. including a shooting at a tour bus that killed over a dozen people. military activity is clearly on the rise again. in any event, without an end to the conflict, the development of ukraine as a whole will be disrupted. the termination of the conflict in eastern ukraine and the termination of the annexation of crimea are clearly in the hands of russia. ukraine can now and immediately start a comprehensive fight against corruption and also carry out comprehensive reforms. the european union can help. the association agreement should therefore be ratified by all eu member states as soon as possible, and by the rio summit at the latest. we also need to move towards visa-free travel. it is very important for the european union to keep ukraine open to a european perspective, knowing that the conditions for its accession to the european union can be fulfilled by ukraine itself.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - madam president, let me reassure those who have insisted on this point of my personal full commitment to working with the european parliament. perhaps i can make a suggestion for organising our calendar in a wiser way, because i think it is a pity that we face such an important discussion at this late hour in the evening. we still have three debates to go, and i think it is a pity that so many members of parliament have left. so this is just an invitation to the presidency to think, perhaps, of a better way of organising our work. let me restate what many of you said tonight: that unity is our strength. we need to keep this unity; we need to keep this strength. i know very well what my responsibility is: it is to work on the unity of the european union, be it in the council, be it in the commission – and be assured that the unity of our efforts and our objectives is there, on the commission side and on the council side – or be it at the european council, where we had a strategic discussion on this question in december with the heads of state and government, or at the level of the council of foreign ministers, which will meet again on monday for the second time in two-and-a-half months. i have been in office now for two-and-a-half months, and the majority of my time has been dedicated to this unity on the message and on the proposals, be it on the support for ukraine internally, or be it on the strategy that we need towards russia. let me quote mr brok and others in saying that our role, and my role, is to support any form and any format of dialogue that can make us, and can make the ukrainians, first of all, together with the russians, move towards positive results on our common objective, which is a resolution to the conflict based on respect for, and the restoration of, ukrainian sovereignty and ukrainian integrity and on respect for international principles and basic laws – which means no change of borders by force. maybe i did not underline that point well enough at the beginning. i took it for granted: we have been saying it for such a long time that i expected the chamber to share this position, which is natural to me. i understand from the debate that this is not the case, and i would invite you, too, to exercise your personal, individual, political and institutional responsibility to work on signs of unity coming from this chamber, because this is also the european union voice. and let me say that i am quite worried by the level of the debate tonight. let me also say something that i did not mention before, on a question which was asked during the debate. i am going to underline it clearly: it has not only been stated by me several times but it is also in all our official positions. there is not going to be any change in our policy on the non-recognition of the annexation of crimea. that is clear; that is to be taken for granted; that is not going to be changed. you do not change borders by force: not in this continent, not in this century, not in this millennium. you do not do it, and we will never accept anything like that. not only will we never accept something like that, but we will always keep our non-recognition policy. now, when it comes to my role, my job, you are right: i lead the european union’s foreign policy and security policy. but my role is more complicated than worrying about what and where my chair is, or perhaps what table i should be at, because my real point is to have a table that works: one that yields results. i am sorry to say that very bluntly, but my main preoccupation day and night is not where i am sitting. my main preoccupation is to create the conditions for negotiations to be successful. if we manage to move forward on resolving the conflict in the east of ukraine that will be my result. it will not be to get a picture at a negotiation table. whatever i can do to facilitate that – whatever i can do with other european ministers, or the prime ministers or presidents, or the members of the european parliament or of other regional organisations – i will do. my objective is to contribute to resolving the crisis: playing in full the european union role but also, if possible, being smart and intelligent in playing that role. and we have to understand what is the best that we can do, at what times and in what format. as many of you have said, we have to support, in a cooperative and intelligent way, anything that we see can work, starting with the full implementation of the minsk agreement. now, what are we united on? there were some basic elements in the debate tonight, and, while this is not my role, let me personally invite you to explore the possibilities of having a joint, united message and a joint resolution. i think we are united on the support for ukraine at different levels. on the political level, first of all, on 15 december 2014 we had the first european union / ukraine association council meeting following the association agreement, and there we defined, together with the ukrainian government, the ways in which the union will support the reform programme in ukraine, including through technical assistance. secondly, on security – and if this went unnoticed by some of you, we will definitely need to improve our communication strategy internally – we started our eu assistance mission on reform of the civil security sector in ukraine on 1 december 2014. this is a concrete thing that the union is doing to support ukraine in the security sector, and i think that you should listen to the ukrainian people and the ukrainian authorities with regard to the recognition they give to our role in that. thirdly, the support for ukraine on a humanitarian level. if you put everything together – what we do on development, what we do on humanitarian assistance and what member states do – it comes, all in all, to eur 74 million, which makes the eu the first and most active supporter of the situation in ukraine on a humanitarian level. is all of this it enough? i do not think so. again, we will need to work – including, as one of the last speakers mentioned, with the people of ukraine, civil society organisations, young people and those who a year ago were in the maidan. not all of them were in the maidan, but many of them were. we have work to do on the role and empowerment of civil society in ukraine. civil society can play a major role in monitoring and supporting the reform process in the country, and this is key. i was surprised when i was there last time, on 17 december 2014, at how high on the agenda the issue of reforms was for all the actors that i met, whether in government, other institutions, civil society or parliament. in some cases, reform was higher on the agenda than the security issue. this is a message coming from ukraine that we must not underestimate. we need to work very hard on this issue, and to work at their side. a second element that i think unites us, or at least the majority of us here – and it certainly unites the council and the commission unanimously – is the need to keep up the pressure on russia. again, maybe i was not clear enough in my opening remarks. i took it for granted that we start not always from zero but from where we left off last time we met, and we do not always have to repeat and reiterate our common positions. but that is clear. sanctions on russia are in place and, yes, they have worked economically. have they worked politically? maybe they are starting to. but it is clear –and again it has been expressed repeatedly, not only by me but also by president tusk recently – that we are going to continue working on this, as we have been working in these months, hand-in-hand, because this is not only foreign policy, it is also internal policy. any decisions on sanctions would be based on concrete developments on the ground. this is, i think, something that no one has talked about. the real point is the third element. many of you have insisted on the need to have a dialogue. that is the point – probably the missing point on our side. i alluded to it when i said we have to be less reactive and more proactive, when i said we need to be more strategic and to develop a comprehensive approach – a comprehensive european union approach – towards russia. that is what we need to do, making it clear that the sanctions are based on the situation on the ground. evaluation of that is going to mean taking stock of the situation on the ground and of developments, negative or positive, or the fact of no development. on the other hand, it does not mean that we do not have to talk: first of all because it is difficult to negotiate if you do not talk to the people you have to negotiate with, and secondly because the ukrainians and the russians are talking to each other, and we need to support that dialogue. so, talking about opening channels of dialogue with russia from the eu side – as the latvian presidency did at the very beginning, as some of the member states are doing and as i have been doing by having a bilateral meeting with foreign minister lavrov in december – i think this is my duty. it is the only way in which we can play our role. it does not mean we are being soft because, even for purposes of being hard, you need to talk.
in writing. – it is encouraging to see a strong ep position in expressing solidarity with ukraine and its people, reiterating our commitment to the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity, inviolability of borders and european choice of ukraine. it is significant that ep recognises not merely "european perspective" for ukraine but clearly states that as a european state ukraine may apply for eu membership. but first, eu has to provide structural, financial aid to ukraine to best support the country´s efforts in conducting reforms, eradicating corruption, and re-building what has been destroyed last year. secondly, eu has to be adamant in maintaining non-recognition policy towards crimea. also, eu together with un need protect tatar minority against violent and arbitrary persecution and forced exile, basically deportation. most importantly, eu needs to maintain and in fact, seriously consider expanding sanctions towards russia. these sanctions have had a clear effect on russia; it would absolutely irresponsible to start to soften them. eu can only, and only then, give in, when russia has fully and tangibly fulfilled minsk agreement. ukrainian and european security cannot be diluted by short-term national economic considerations. this is a war of nerves, and eu, based on solidarity with victims and european values has all the advantages if it can demonstrate strong nerves.
in writing. – i would like to support the sincere assessment by the high representative of the situation in ukraine, underlining the need for internal reforms and for the urgent necessity to address the humanitarian crisis in this country, especially in its eastern part. the support that the eu may provide to ukraine for reforms and humanitarian aid cannot be overestimated. the need for cooperation with russia, for unfreezing eu-russian relations is also obvious, regrettably not to all members of this parliament. the ongoing economic and energy crisis in ukraine cannot be overcome without active and positive involvement of russia. we should be realistic. neither the eu nor other western countries and institutions can provide all necessary funding. the losses to the ukrainian economy are huge, due to a decline in trade with russia, which may still be recovered. we need to break the vicious circle of sanctions that have proved to be largely ineffective and try to find better solutions, based on mutual respect of legal and legitimate interests, first of all the interests of the people of ukraine.
mr president, i fully support, on behalf of the estonian delegation, the initiative by my italian colleagues to achieve a rapid and fair solution of two italian ‘maròs’. i would also take the opportunity to present the urgent problem of 20 eu citizens – 14 estonians and 6 british – detained by the indian authorities for almost 16 months by now. these are also anti-piracy security guards of the seaman guard ohio vessel arrested on charges of carrying weapons on board – legal weapons. in july last year, the madurai high court cleared them of all charges. despite that, they are prevented from leaving india and have their documents and belongings returned pending an appeal by the indian police. the health of several men had seriously deteriorated. their families are deprived of any income. given the fact that these crew members have not been involved in any criminal offences, the indefinite detention in india amounts to gross violation of their human rights. in fact, they have become victims of a huge and clumsy bureaucracy. therefore, i appeal to you, as high representative, to do your utmost to contribute to their quick and safe return home. the fundamental rights and security of eu citizens in third countries should be safeguarded also by the eu diplomatic representations.
mr president, first i would like to thank the high representative for this long day and for expressing the very strong feeling of solidarity and cooperation which we have witnessed throughout the whole of today. the case we are discussing now, almost up to midnight, is in some sense symbolic because it is not about some abstract matter, but about the fate of human beings – individuals and co-citizens – and is why we, two estonians, have joined this effort, because it is not a national issue. it is an issue of human rights and of trust in the eu among people – among citizens and every individual – and we really want to emphasise that the eu has to safeguard the security and fundamental rights of every eu citizen, no matter which member state they belong to and in which third country this kind of thing may happen. it is also important that we have high respect for the indian nation. we hope that in relations between india and the eu this spirit of solidarity and human rights will also be respected. regarding the separate case involving 14 estonian marine mercenaries – and also six british – this has also been pending for more than a year. your predecessor was informed about it, including by letter, and we see that the eu is not very effective in helping citizens in this situation. so we hope very much that, under your management, the european external action service will be much more effective in helping to solve cases of this kind. it is with this hope that we are here, we raise this issue and we support our italian colleagues, and hope that our italian and all our other colleagues from all the other countries of the eu will support the estonian marine mercenaries. by the way it was again, in this case, because they were fighting piracy that they happened to be in that tragic situation, so that is another problem – how people who sacrifice their security for the security of other people are not protected in such circumstances. that is also an issue to be raised.
on behalf of the alde group. unfortunately, the situation of both human rights defenders and human rights defenders in russia is deteriorating. the navalny case is another example of selective prosecution. at the same time, human rights organizations continue to be added to the list of so-called foreign agents. after the sakharov prize was awarded here in the european parliament, for example, the russian authorities put the sakharov centre for human rights and 20 other organisations on the list of foreign agents. let's not forget that the st. petersburg army nurse association is also considered a foreign agent by the russian authorities. however, the status of a foreign agent makes it virtually impossible to continue to protect human rights. this is the power of a man who's afraid of his own people. the european union must take these developments very seriously and take them into account in shaping its future policy towards russia. in conclusion, i would like to remind you that in early september estonian police officer eston kohver was detained by the russian security services on estonian territory and is still in moscow prison. he too must be released immediately.
author. - madam president, it is the first time in my memory that the high representative has attended urgency debates. this is highly inspirational for our further cooperation, especially after her ordeal yesterday evening. but, as for kyrgzstan, we must also have in mind that this country has achieved considerable parliamentary democracy and has made progress in that way. the resolution in question has for me a preventive message, as the draft law has not yet been adopted and we are addressing possible damage to the equality and security of same-sex people. the positive sign is that the kyrgzstan authorities have already reacted to parliament’s draft in a cooperative way. the latest message we have got is that the bill in question has been considerably changed, with interested ngos involved in preparing the final text. hopefully it will not present any real threat to the security and equal rights of lgbti people, but of course we continue to watch developments carefully. at the same time, we should welcome the progress made by kyrgzstan in the domain of human rights and in cooperation and joint dialogue with the european union.
in writing. i supported the ombudsman's annual report. the ombudsman has worked well with the european parliament, strengthening the accountability and transparency of structures and institutions at european level, and thereby promoting good administration.
in writing. i supported the resolution because the violence in libya must end quickly and all parties must start negotiations to stabilise the situation in the country. the people of libya must have access to and control over the resources of their land, and the rights of every person must be protected. the european commission must do everything possible to help end the humanitarian crisis in libya as a matter of urgency.
in writing. i supported the resolution. problem number one is the ongoing conflict in eastern ukraine and russia's annexation of crimea. yesterday and the day before yesterday, the so-called separatists violated the ceasefire at least 84 times, including the killing of more than ten people on a tourist bus. but the key to ending the conflict is in the hands of russia. ukraine, however, can finally embark on a comprehensive fight against corruption and on a comprehensive reform process itself. there's not an infinite amount of time.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution. egypt today is a troubled country. basic human rights are under constant attack by extremist groups as well as authorities. the situation of christians and women has worsened, regardless of new protective laws. mass trials and death penalties passed are an indication of judicial partiality. whereas it is symbolically important gesture that president abdel fattah al-sisi visited for the first time a christian copt church, on the occasion of christmas eve, egypt needs to put real effort in protecting christian minority against terrorist attacks by islamist extremists and people under their influence. those responsible for attacks against religious minorities should be dealt with under the responsibility of the authorities and experience real punishments. allowing freedom of expression and assembly is a test case for any country that has overcome a long history of repressive regimes. i also support the call to ban the export to egypt of surveillance technologies which could be used to spy on and repress citizens and, in line with the wassenaar arrangement, to ban the export of security equipment or military aid that could be used in the suppression of peaceful protest.
in writing. i supported the resolution because it supports democratic principles and the fundamental freedoms of the egyptian people. egyptian citizens must have the right to human dignity, social protection, better living conditions and a fair and just trial. egypt should be on the path to democracy.
in writing. i supported the resolution because india must ensure the protection of fundamental rights and a fair trial. the issue also concerns estonian citizens who have been detained in india for over a year. even though they have won the court case, they are still not allowed to leave the country. in addition to the italian nationals, the estonian and british guards who have been detained must also be released quickly and returned to their families in their home countries.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the epp group resolution on the commission work programme for 2015. i would like to underline the call to focus on key priorities and thus to enforce needed legislation and to remove obstacles. the digital single market is both a short- and long term key priority, thus rapid progress is needed so that appropriate legislation is put in place. we need to accomplish the data protection directive, telecoms single market and network and information society directive this year! i especially support the paragraph on cutting red tape that calls for reducing bureaucratic burdens by 25 % and establishing independent assessments in order to measure the administrative burden and related costs of new proposals, including a mandatory sme test. finalising ttip talks this year is crucial for transatlantic relations; we cannot drag out these negotiations forever. we need to agree now and create the biggest free trade area based on democratic values and principles. agreeing on an ambitious, balanced and comprehensive ttip respecting eu social, environmental and consumer standards will give a new impetus to economic growth, but also set standards on a global scale that others could follow.
in writing. i supported the commission's work programme. the european commission's programme seeks to propose and implement solutions to overcome the current difficulties in the eu. it is important to deepen the dialogue in different areas, including the further development of the eu's single foreign policy.
in writing. i supported the resolution because i consider freedom of the media to be one of the foundations of democracy. in a democratic society, everyone must be able to express themselves freely. the turkish government must take steps and implement reforms to guarantee these fundamental freedoms to its citizens.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution. free and pluralistic media are a cornerstone of democracy. turkey has committed itself to democracy through the accession talks with the eu. despite ankara’s commitment, according to reporters without borders turkey has become one of the biggest prisons for people representing media. in the 2013 gezi park demonstrations, 39 journalists were detained and 153 were injured. self-censorship was applied, so that the violent demonstrations were more present in european media than in turkish. currently more than 70 journalists are subject to legal proceedings for having exposed and informed about corruption cases involving high level politicians, including the prime minister. the investigating parliamentary committee last week decided to drop its investigations. it was rather ironic to see the turkish foreign minister showing solidarity with french victims of free speech in paris on january 11, when at home in turkey, media freedom is constantly under threat. i urge our turkish neighbours to pledge for democratic values in their actions and not only in words. turkey’s best guarantee for prosperity and european future is a vibrant democracy.
in writing. – the underlying point now is that we cannot wait any longer to put in place adequate counter-terrorism measures. the epp group has always stressed the need for a passenger name record (pnr) system and has emphasised that need in its strategy for counter-terrorism, as presented on 28 january 2015. credit card and telecoms companies are already obliged by law to keep their data for up to six months. why should it be different when it comes to pnr data? up to this point, the eu has focused on securing data protection and privacy, leaving security aside. the deteriorating security situation and the radicalisation around us are clear proof that privacy and security have to complement one another. preventing radicalisation and terrorist attacks should be the core aim. there should be close cooperation with social network companies to restrict access to terrorist material online and remove any terrorist propaganda. one effect of such action would be to help curb hate speech, and that needs to be addressed in laws across europe. cutting off the means of propaganda alone is not enough: tracking down and disabling the financing of terrorism is another important pillar. we need a terrorist finance tracking system. to back up the establishment of an eu black list of european jihadists and terrorism suspects, we need to put in place an eu smart border system and to cooperate closely with third countries.
in writing. following the terrorist attacks in paris, the european union must stand in solidarity with france. these unfortunate events remind us of the importance of intervention and prevention measures to ensure the safety of our citizens. the csdp is an important part of these measures and therefore cannot be overlooked. the current political climate underlines the need to develop the csdp to reach its potential. the sdc's under-equipment problem could be partially alleviated by the two mistral-class helicopter carriers whose sale to russia was suspended. recent events have made it clear that it would be irresponsible to supply these vessels to a country that is supporting terrorist attacks against citizens of its neighbour.
blue-card question. – mr iwaszkiewicz, if you do not believe that climate change is caused by man, do you believe that it is caused by god?
mr president, i cannot speak today without mentioning the situation in ukraine, because the conflict in ukraine needs an immediate international intervention. the most logical way to go about this would be to reach a new ceasefire and also allow a un peacekeeping force into the country. this step would end the violence and ukraine’s further loss of any territory. but i also want to stress that, in recent months, there have been several situations which have been very close to crashes between passenger planes and military planes flying without transponders in europe. the activity of russian military planes has increased considerably in european airspace, especially in the baltic sea region. flying with transponders and communication systems switched off represents a grave threat to passenger planes. this means that the aviation rules need to be changed in such a way that military planes could not fly without working transponders.
mr president, it is never easy to talk about war or its grave consequences. war is a costly business, especially if russians are involved. take it from me because i was unfortunate enough to have been forced to serve in the russian army in the 1980s. ukraine, as mr paet said, is in deep crisis. gdp shrank by nearly a tenth, the currency fell by more than 50 %, inflation is up to 25 % and foreign currency reserves fell by half within one year. hence our question is: have we taken the necessary commitments for all kinds of aid to ukraine, because we could not foresee the events during our discussions about the multiannual financial framework? i am fully aware that there are also other crises going on around the european union, for instance the palestinian authorities receiving eur 500 million each year. now it has been proposed by the german chancellor that we donate the same amount of money to ukraine. well, the size of the economy is different. i will stop here.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, there is a debate which asks the question of whether the internet is becoming a human right, whether the internet is becoming a utility like water? if so, what are the rules and rights online? what it is key to remember in that debate is that the internet is not national, or even european; it is global, and any rule on surveillance, on competition, needs to be thought about in a global context to prevent any fragmentation of the internet. this is why we, as europeans, need to support and be actively involved in the internet governance forum, as a debate at international level about the internet – its challenges as well as its opportunities – is essential. on behalf of the liberals, i have stressed in this resolution that the human rights and fundamental freedoms that we have offline should be protected online as well. this is often forgotten. state-controlled internet, but also mass surveillance and online censorship are on the rise around the world, including in europe, and this clearly goes against our fundamental freedoms. my country, estonia, ranked second on internet freedom. however, it was almost an exception as 84% of countries had, in 2014, weak laws or no laws at all to protect citizens from mass surveillance. it is getting worse, as it was 64% in 2013. i would add one point to that. the rights of individuals to secure communication, including through encryption, are part of the same debate and this needs to be discussed as well in the internet governance forum. i strongly believe that the day the privacy of individuals on the internet ends will also be the day that the internet ceases to exist as an open platform of innovation and exchange of ideas. i therefore hope that the commission will be active in promoting these values at international level.
mr president, i will not talk about the peace negotiations as there has been a lot of talk about that already, so i am returning to the economic sanctions. russia is very resistant to economic sanctions if resistance serves a higher political purpose. russia will use every trick in its pocket to divide europe to reach its goals. creating divisions in europe is what russia has always done, and this can already be seen today if we look at the talks in greece about getting funding from russia. ukraine needs a unified europe. as it is the role of the high representative to ensure this unity of europe, and i would be grateful if she could reassure me on this front. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i do agree that we have to wait more. we have to be ready for a longer period, because if we are impatient and say that the sanctions are not working after three months, then we have to think decisions through and properly, because we should be prepared for a longer time.
mr president, coming from a country on the border with russia, i would say that all such countries really understand that what is at stake is not only ukraine; it is really the future of the whole of europe; it is security and peace in the whole of europe. putin is obviously testing the strength and unity of all of us and we have to show that we have that strength and unity. we all hope that tomorrow in minsk there will be success. but we should also have a plan b, because we cannot be sure that success will be achieved. and what is our plan b? what are our red lines? i suppose today is maybe not the time to voice this, but we have to think about it and we have to be ready to discuss it immediately after seeing what happens in minsk. because for sure ukraine needs more humanitarian aid, and for sure ukraine will need all our support for reforms. but also, russia will not stop unless it knows that europe is ready to impose sanctions which are not limited to blacklisting some names but also include an oil embargo, if needed, and other forms of economic boycott and, if needed, also to help ukraine with ammunition.
thank you, chairman! the esteemed mrs. mogherini! european soft power has collided with russian weapons and this is our new reality today. the minsk meeting tomorrow will hopefully achieve at least a new ceasefire in eastern ukraine, which will then hopefully not be violated again a hundred and twenty times a day in a few weeks' time. but still, in recent weeks, there has been a decline in the amount of territory under ukrainian control. today, the attacks in kramatorsk and debaltseve have continued. and the truce itself is certainly necessary, but it must not lead to the emergence of a new frozen conflict zone, and that risk is very high there today. this is not the solution for the european security space of the 21st century. despite the fact that it is very difficult to find a solution to the entire conflict, given that it is a fundamental conflict whether ukraine can decide its own future or not, all actions, including political action, sanctions and also comprehensive and increasing assistance to ukraine, must in any case be continued. - thank you. - thank you.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. - mr president, i will start with one of the most frequently asked questions here, indeed one recently asked by one of my italian colleagues. what kind of mandate is there for the initiative discussed here and which – here in this room as well as in the newspapers – is called the german-french initiative? i am sure that everybody sitting in this room has heard of something called the ‘normandy format’. it was started some months ago and is something we refer to in our council conclusions. to see what kind of european union mandate there exists behind this initiative, you can look at all the foreign affairs council conclusions over the last six or seven months – and i think also some european council conclusions. allow me to read to you parts – not all but a few sentences – of the last foreign affairs council conclusions of 19 january 2015, before the initiative was taken. in those conclusions, all 28 foreign ministers, and i will come back again to unity, referred to the berlin joint statement by the foreign ministers of france, germany, russia and ukraine of 21 january, and we said: ‘all signatories of the minsk agreements should convene as a matter of urgency within the framework of the trilateral contact group.’ this is something which is happening at the present time. this is an osce, and not a european union, exercise. however, i think it is not only our right, but our duty to recall the positive effort on the diplomatic side. because i am saying that the present initiative is a european initiative, let me now read you a sentence that to me is the basis for our common work: ‘the european union will actively support all diplomatic efforts conducive to creating a new political impetus […]. full implementation of the minsk agreements as the basis for a sustainable political solution to the conflict […] must remain the focus of such talks’. to those who ask me about the kind of mandate for this initiative, i would say that it is exactly this. it is a normal normandy format initiative, like many of the ones that we have had. unfortunately it has not been as successful in the last months but i hope this one will bring some results. this is a decision taken by the 28 foreign ministers, by the council. so i understand if, for internal political reasons and party politics, some groups and some members of this parliament take it as a way of attacking one or the other, but, believe me, this is a european initiative. it goes in the european direction and has to have all europeans supporting it and not just applauding it. some of you have rightly said that the important thing is that it gets results. if it gets results everybody should applaud it. i would say, not only applaud it but ‘actively support’ it. let me say that i am very pleased to hear, especially on this side of the chamber, a lot of support for ‘more europe’. this does not happen often and i appreciate it very much. i also appreciate having so many supporters. i know very well what my role is. at this particular moment, my role is to actively support those efforts by trying to get them to bring about a positive result. how? firstly, by keeping our unity. our unity makes the headlines only when we do not have it. but we all know very well that a crucial part of our response to this crisis is to keep our unity in political efforts and in diplomatic exercises, and when we exert pressure on russia through sanctions. in recent weeks we have had two foreign affairs councils. in both of them, in very difficult political conditions, we all went into a room not being 100% certain that we would come out of that room completely united along the same lines and with some substantial result. this was done. it does not make the headlines and i am happy about that. i am happy if it does not make the headlines. i am less happy if it is underlined that we are not involved in negotiations or that we are not pursuing diplomatic efforts. maybe when i am in a room with mr lavrov, mr poroshenko, mr klimkin, mr kerry or mr biden this can be considered a european effort. this is a european exercise, and do not play politics around it because this is serious. (applause) someone spoke of where we were. they correctly said, and i will reiterate the sentence: we are at minsk ii to implement minsk i. we have to do all that we can to make it work and this is not the day to be thinking of what we do if this does not happen. we will have a day after; we will have one week after; we will have one month after. i agree with the member on one month after, but one day after is probably not too late. if you want a diplomatic effort to succeed, you do not start planning plan b before you get there. that is a basic rule, not only of diplomacy but of common sense. so what we have to do now is to insist on two things. firstly, not to have a political and security environment that does not allow the meeting tomorrow to be successful. we have a collective responsibility. obviously it is not primarily our responsibility but it is primarily the responsibility of those on the ground. maybe i missed something today, but i think there is an awareness of the fact that, in any kind of negotiation, whenever we get closer to the moment when the parties have to meet, violence increases. this is what worries me most. so the first responsibility we have is to keep unity. secondly, we must direct all our work, even parliamentary diplomacy, towards achieving a result that will facilitate a common european effort. thirdly, we should try to make sure that the environment leading to tomorrow night’s meeting can allow a result. fourthly, and in agreement with some of the last comments that were made, we must not only bring about a ceasefire but ensure the ceasefire can be implemented and monitored and that it is sustainable. this also means creating a framework for the ceasefire. now it is not for me to go into the details of what is being negotiated now. obviously we are talking and exchanging information, but you do not necessarily issue a press release about that. i think we are all grown up enough to understand that very well. maybe you are right that i should not assume this. still i think that we are all very much aware of the fact that we have different steps to take and that we have a huge historical responsibility, not only a political one. let me touch upon two things that were mentioned because i also think they were very important. firstly, someone mentioned the need to reinforce the role of the osce and the monitors; i fully agree. i am very much involved in this network of diplomatic efforts. one of the people i talk to the most is heidi tagliavini who is doing an excellent job. i think in this sense that we are doing a lot already but if we come to a stage where monitoring is required we definitely will need to reinforce that instrument. another point that was raised – and i will conclude on this – concerns ms savchenko. i am not sure whether or not you have already received my reply to your letter about that where i tried to list what we are trying to do. this is not easy. we are in contact with lawyers and our people in the delegation are trying to attend the trial, but it is not easy to get a guarantee in that environment. we are working on that and we are aware of that. let me assure you that this case, and other cases of people illegally detained in russia, are being closely followed by our service. thank you very much for this discussion. for me at least, it was useful. i hope it was also useful to send out a clear message that not only are we united when it comes to the council, the 28 member states, but on this matter that we can also be increasingly united in parliament.
in writing. – russia’s expanding its influence by direct aggression and hybrid warfare against its neighbours goes far beyond concrete military actions. it poses a direct threat both to ukrainian and european long-term security. russia’s sabre-rattling, soviet-style propaganda of obvious lies and intolerance, financing extremist movements in europe, has made it clear beyond any doubt that mr putin’s strategic aim is to reduce ukraine to the status of a failed state, unable to make independent decisions like integrating itself into the european space of rule of law. mr putin sees the eu not as a strategic partner but as a strategic adversary, to be split and weakened. the usa and eu have to seriously consider aiding the ukrainian army to defend itself. this would mean providing technological and specialist assistance to equip ukraine with adequate know-how and ict. in the short term, the eu has to considerably increase its humanitarian and development aid to ukraine, providing also refuge and asylum as well as enabling students to continue their studies in the eu countries.
in writing – recent events in ukraine, such as the indiscriminate shelling of civilians in mariupol, clearly illustrate the need to develop the csdp to its full potential, in order to increase the union’s capability to react adequately to the situation. russia’s naval chief admiral vladimir vysotsky once said that with mistral warships russia would have won the 2008 war against georgia ‘in 40 minutes instead of 26 hours’. this assessment clearly indicates that mistral ships would be a very effective platform in the black sea. as almost everyone has realised by now, it would be insane to support russia’s expansionist polices in the region by delivering these warships to them at any point in time. as the attacks on both georgia and ukraine have shown, russia’s expansionism is not a one-off isolated incident. last month the parliament condemned russia’s aggressive expansionist policies in ukraine, however, words alone cannot solve the crisis. an effective contribution from the union to remedy the imbalance of power between russia and ukraine would be to acquire and man the mistral ships, and send them as reinforcements to ukraine.
in writing. i supported the bill because it concerns the codification of existing legislation. in the same big picture, iceland would be very welcome to resume eu accession talks.
in writing. i supported the proposal on the measures that the eu could take following the wto dispute settlement body's report on anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures. the proposal is limited to the codification of the acts without any substantive amendments.
in writing. i supported the bill because it merely codifies existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. i supported the draft on imports from third countries. improved notification and investigation rules will also allow the commission to apply provisional measures, thus helping to better protect the eu interest.
in writing. i supported the bills because the new regulation will remove quantitative restrictions on exports to third countries, thereby promoting trade and the economy.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the hague convention on child abduction is a crucial piece of legislation. the accession of any new country to the convention on this issue will contribute to the resolution of international child abduction cases and will eliminate bias in the administration of justice. the protection of children's rights must be given a high priority in international relations and law.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the hague convention on child abduction is a crucial piece of legislation. the accession of any new country to the convention on this issue will contribute to the resolution of international child abduction cases and will eliminate bias in the administration of justice. the protection of children's rights must be given a high priority in international relations and law.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the hague convention on child abduction is a crucial piece of legislation. the accession of any new country to the convention on this issue will contribute to the resolution of international child abduction cases and will eliminate bias in the administration of justice. the protection of children's rights must be given a high priority in international relations and law.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the hague convention on child abduction is a crucial piece of legislation. the accession of any new country to the convention on this issue will contribute to the resolution of international child abduction cases and will eliminate bias in the administration of justice. the protection of children's rights must be given a high priority in international relations and law.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the hague convention on child abduction is a crucial piece of legislation. the accession of any new country to the convention on this issue will contribute to the resolution of international child abduction cases and will eliminate bias in the administration of justice. the protection of children's rights must be given a high priority in international relations and law.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the hague convention on child abduction is a crucial piece of legislation. the accession of any new country to the convention on this issue will contribute to the resolution of international child abduction cases and will eliminate bias in the administration of justice. the protection of children's rights must be given a high priority in international relations and law.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the hague convention on child abduction is a crucial piece of legislation. the accession of any new country to the convention on this issue will contribute to the resolution of international child abduction cases and will eliminate bias in the administration of justice. the protection of children's rights must be given a high priority in international relations and law.
in writing. i supported the proposal because the hague convention on child abduction is a crucial piece of legislation. the accession of any new country to the convention on this issue will contribute to the resolution of international child abduction cases and will eliminate bias in the administration of justice. the protection of children's rights must be given a high priority in international relations and law.
in writing. i supported the bills because it would remove unnecessary administrative barriers and simplify the registration requirements for citizens of other eu member states to participate in elections to the european parliament, either as voters or as candidates.
in writing. i supported the bill because its implementation will improve road safety on european roads. the number of road accidents and traffic offences caused by non-residents is increasing and the existing laws do not promote police cooperation. this can create a feeling of impunity, which in turn means an increased traffic risk for other road users. all citizens, regardless of the country in which their vehicle is registered, must be treated equally. although the eu wants to reduce road deaths by 50% by 2020, the number has actually increased. this is therefore an urgent change and should be implemented in the member states as soon as possible.
in writing. — i support the directive on facilitating cross-border exchange of information on road safety related traffic offences. the directive will put an end to a situation in which foreign drivers could drive with impunity on eu roads. the enhanced equal treatment of residents and non-residents will lead to a higher awareness of traffic rules. this will ensure the best possible level of street safety and will promote the aim of european union to cut the numbers of road victims by 50 % by 2020.
in writing. i supported the proposal to establish a framework for cooperation between the european union and the republic of senegal, as it creates a level playing field for the eu fleet and senegal can no longer grant more favourable conditions to other fleets than those provided for in the agreement. the senegalese economy also needs to benefit from better use of fisheries resources in line with the principles of sustainable fisheries and best practices in the sector.
in writing. — i had to vote together with the ppe group against the text. as the key amendments proposed by the ppe were not accepted, the text of the resolution remained seriously unbalanced. the resolution in question cannot be treated as an isolated case. it is part of the eu and usa bilateral relationship which is in a crucial stage as the ttip talks are entering a decisive phase. the ppe text underlines that transatlantic cooperation has always been based on common values, including promotion of fundamental human rights, but also joint efforts to combat terrorism. we welcome the fact that the usa congress has been willing and able to expose deviations in the treatment of prisoners who were heavily suspected of being active terrorists. this is a sign of healthy and strong democracy. we have absolutely no reason to doubt the commitment of american institutions to the basic principles of citizensʼ rights. it is a bit hypocritical to point a finger at president obama for not having closed down the guantanamo facility, while ignoring the fact that very few eu governments have been willing to accept prisoners kept there.
in writing. i supported the proposal because i consider the compilation of a comprehensive report to be a very important step, showing the willingness of the us government to critically analyse the situation. joint efforts in the fight against terrorism shall be consistent with international law, based on obligations under international human rights law and humanitarian law.
in writing. — i supported the resolution. the us senate’s report on post-9/11 cia torture revealed shocking truths about the ʽenhanced interrogation techniquesʼ used against foreign prisoners in overseas prisons, including rectal rehydration, sleep deprivation, long periods of standing and threats to prisonersʼ family members. several countries hosted us detention centres, including three eu member states: poland, romania and lithuania. these activities cannot be justified at all. according to the un convention against torture (1984), no exceptional circumstances may be invoked as a justification of torture (article 2). it is very worrying that the ʽtechniquesʼ were previously authorised by the us authorities. i welcome the publication of the senate’s report. regretfully, former high-ranking officials in the us still try to justify these ʽtechniquesʼ which proved to be largely ineffective. the fight against terrorism, the democratic image of both the us and the eu, the positive character of us-eu cooperation are heavily compromised. it is appropriate to insist on public officials in the us and the eu, responsible for acts of systemic and outrageous breach of fundamental rights, being punished. europe cannot serve as a beacon of democracy if no appropriate measures are taken in poland, romania and lithuania – all three countries were actively involved in moulding the european neighbourhood policy.
in writing. — i voted in favour of the joint resolution. this resolution is the follow-up to the debate that was held during the last mini-plenary and is based on the anti-terrorism pact proposed by my group, the epp group. it is to be welcomed that other bigger groups are willing to work on this jointly to engage all european forces in the fight against terrorism. i would like to urge a serious stepping up of the cooperation and exchange of information between member states. without such an efficient exchange, prevention and detection will not work. we immediately need setting up of pnr data-sharing, detecting and controlling effectively the export and sales of firearms within the eu and also to and from the eu among the first steps. the eu has to seriously look into the money flows and how to cut financing of terrorist cells in the eu and elsewhere. pressure has to be put also on the states that finance radicalisation. i welcome the call on the eeas to develop a strategy for an eu external strategy combating international terrorism, addressing the sources of terrorism and mainstreaming counter-terrorism.
in writing. i supported the bill. to combat terrorism, a european union intelligence service must be established to ensure adequate collection and analysis of information and the flow of information between member states. europol, including the european counter-terrorism centre, should also be strengthened. eurojust must also be strengthened and the eu's external action must include participation in the formulation of counter-terrorism policy and its international implementation. information exchange between eu member states is also key.
in writing. the spread of terrorism, even among european citizens, is a matter of concern and must be addressed at european level. i support the resolution on counter-terrorism measures. however, i believe that the radicalisation of minority groups can be prevented by a thoughtful approach to integration and respect for cultural diversity.
in writing. — i voted in favour of this resolution. internet governance must be based on a multi-stakeholder approach, providing transparency and full accountability. i urge the un general assembly to renew the mandate of the internet governance forum in this regard. and i call upon the eu institutions and member states to support the multi-stakeholder approach both in discussions and decision-making. in this regard, i also would like to reiterate the call on the commission, the member states and all relevant stakeholders in paragraph 6 to further strengthen the sustainability of the multi-stakeholder model by making actors and processes at the national, regional and international levels more inclusive, transparent and accountable. whereas strengthening security in the internet is needed to prevent and detect terrorist incidents and radicalisation, this cannot mean a fully state-controlled internet and mass-surveillance of citizens. ensuring that human rights are respected also online must be the common underlying principle. europe has good cards to provide a balanced answer to the dilemma between privacy and security and could by those means become a role model at a global level.
in writing. i supported the bills because the internet governance forum is an important platform for international dialogue on internet-related issues and deserves to be preserved.
mr president, i supported the resolution. this is not, of course, such a big deal that it needs any explanation, yet i would like to warn this chamber, and the consumer protection lobby as well, that we may need to rethink the ways of guaranteeing these rights. already now, when buying a sausage, i need a mighty magnifying glass in order to read the nano-letters on the label. what does the information on the canned fish mean when it says that the fish was caught ‘in region f’? should i go to a library to find out whether that is in the atlantic or the indian ocean? we should be more careful next time we tackle these problems.
in writing. i supported the proposal because a more rigorous monitoring system will allow possible infringements to be detected and appropriate action taken. the commission's report shows that more than 90% of respondents consider it important to indicate the origin of the meat in processed foods. however, the possible price effect must be further investigated, since the measures must be taken in an economically reasonable manner and in accordance with the consumer's purchasing power.
in writing. i supported the proposal because i consider it necessary to strengthen the political dialogue and cooperation between the jpas, in particular in the promotion and protection of the principles of the rule of law and good governance, but also in the light of the current international situation.
madam president, the catastrophic situation in the middle east is certainly not normal. it has been artificially created by several powers which have been waging proxy wars in the region to gain control of it. among them, of course, there is iran, which has been exporting arms, fighters and terrorists in the region. islamic state is actually the latest evil incarnation of this process. we must admit our co-responsibility for not supporting change in syria when this started in its democratic and more modest forms. delay and hesitancy have favoured radicalisation. the end-of-the-world style results we must face today. the immediate programme will relieve the needs of the 17 million people in syria and iraq who are deserving of it, but an equally immediate challenge is to defeat islamic state, and this also requires arms and political will, and to create the conditions for displaced persons to return to their homes.
mr president, the syrian civil war has already created the greatest humanitarian disaster of this century, and now the horrors of isil in iraq and syria have added to that. it is important that european countries clearly define the limits to the participation of their own citizens in fighting for isil. we can use our experience to help our partners do the same: for example, the countries of central asia are very concerned about this issue. of course, we also need to work more closely with the arab countries and turkey, both in the fight against isil and in helping refugees. refugees their assistance must be a priority for the european union's humanitarian aid. if necessary, development aid should also be redirected to humanitarian aid to alleviate the suffering of these people. finally, international sanctions should be imposed on both arms sales and money transfers to isil. - thank you. - thank you.
in writing. today, tragic news has again been brought to light of the hundreds of refugees who have drowned in the mediterranean. this is yet another sad sign that the eu's external border needs to be strengthened. the eu border agency frontex has been underfunded and understaffed. the growing pressure on the eu's borders cannot be allowed to continue. frontex should be developed into a full-fledged eu agency, adequately funded by the eu budget. frontex cannot rely solely on contributions from member states. the eu will also face a difficult period in the near future in terms of border protection and pressure on refugees. it is therefore high time that frontex is properly and consistently funded and staffed. this should be reflected in the eu budget for the following year at the latest and preferably earlier.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the case of raïf badawi deserves serious attention. everybody must be alarmed by the heavy prison sentence he was given for his activities while monitoring human rights in his country. however, the decision to administer 1 000 lashes to him is barbaric and equals a death sentence. saudi arabia has ratified the un convention against torture, under which corporal punishments are prohibited. i very much hope that this debate will convey a convincing message to the saudi authorities that they should cancel the lashing verdict, review the accusations against mr badawi and provide conditions of humane treatment for him. we welcome, at the same time, the judicial reforms that have started already in saudi arabia, and i encourage the new king to do his utmost to guarantee the protection of individual citizens’ rights and safety.
in writing. i supported the proposal to set up a special committee because i believe that all member states must follow a fair taxation practice, avoid unfair tax revenues and ensure a level playing field.
in writing. the syrian civil war has already created the greatest humanitarian catastrophe of the 21st century. now, to that, we have added the horrors of isis in iraq and syria. it is important that european countries stop sending their citizens to fight for isil. we help our partner countries do the same. for example, the countries of central asia are in a very difficult situation. stronger cooperation is needed with the arab states and turkey, which as an eu candidate country must be more closely involved in the eu's common foreign policy, both in the fight against isil and in helping refugees. refugees assisting them must also be a top priority for eu humanitarian aid. if necessary, development aid should be redirected to humanitarian aid to alleviate human suffering. stronger international restrictions should be imposed on both arms supplies and financial transfers to isil.
mr president, the energy union will be built on different pillars and one of them is electricity interconnectors. interconnectors are an important tool for lowering electricity prices. the media likes to talk about when the prices for energy rise, but they often ignore situations when the prices fall. when investments were made in electricity connections between finland and estonia, many criticised this, saying it would never pay off. however, today we are part of the nord pool power market which contributed to a fall of electricity prices of 15%. the european challenge is today building interconnectors between member states to allow trading so that consumers will benefit from the lowest price for electricity, which might come from another member state. for this we need investments, political will and european vision. i hope that the commission will act promptly to deliver the energy union that we need tomorrow, but actually already needed yesterday.
in writing. – the european parliament has called for an integrated single energy market for several years. the council’s deadline for the completion of the internal energy market was set for the end of 2014. in the new international situation the security of the eu is directly threatened. any further delay is bound to undermine europe’s internal and external stability. continued existence within the eu of isolated energy islands depending on supplies from third countries will make the union vulnerable to external economic blackmail. one of the core issues for the future will be offering consumers more diversity and choices. energy poverty needs to be addressed adequately. the focus has to shift onto reduced and energy-efficient consumption, including investing in zero-energy buildings. consumers must have clear and real-time information on their energy consumption and costs, and on energy-saving possibilities. the energy union has to specifically address the micro-producers. more and more private individuals produce their own energy, using solar panels and air-earth pumps. the immediate task is to accommodate both eu and national regulations in a flexible way to fit their specific needs, reducing regulatory burdens and guaranteeing them a natural space in the energy market where they are often regarded by big producers as a nuisance. the goal is to make consumers more independent from major energy grids.
in writing. – so far the eu has not been very successful in helping ukraine either financially or practically. recent events have illustrated the immaturity of the cfsp, which unfortunately is currently mostly theoretical and unsubstantial. the cfsp has to be ready preventively, because otherwise it cannot be effectively and timely deployed once it is needed. although in most cases the eu rightfully seeks political or diplomatic solutions to crises, there is a need for a ‘backup’ system such as the cfsp in cases where diplomatic solutions fail. this is not to say that the cfsp is an instrument to wage war; however, an adequate cfsp would act as a deterrent against violations of political and diplomatic agreements. repeated violations of the minsk ii ceasefire have shown that soft powers alone, without even the theoretical possibility of a practical reaction, are not enough to guarantee that the conditions set in diplomatic agreements are respected. underfunding and underequipping the cfsp in the hope that it will not be needed is not a sustainable solution. procrastination is the enemy of effectiveness. the purchase of the mistral ships by the eu would be a helpful contribution towards enabling the csdp to reach its full potential.
in writing. joint action by the european union to end violence against women is essential. all eu member states must accede to the council of europe's istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. accession to the convention lays the foundations for close international cooperation in combating violence against women. the treatment of women in war zones continues to be a major problem. unfortunately, violence against women is often used as a weapon in military conflicts. it is a shameful violation of human rights and the international community has an important role to play in putting an end to it. in addition to combating violence against women, gender equality must also be promoted by focusing on reducing the pay gap and increasing women's economic independence.
in writing.– in spite of european integration and harmonisation of national legislation with eu law, the situation of eastern european women on the labour market is characterised by systemic discrimination. this is reflected in lower income, lack of representation at the highest levels of the career ladder and concentration in the less prestigious and less profitable sectors of the economy. particularly vulnerable are women of childbearing age. the un committee on the elimination of discrimination against women has also repeatedly expressed its concerns about the persistence in many eastern european countries of stereotypes concerning the roles and responsibilities of women and men in the family and in society, which overemphasise the traditional roles of women as mothers and spouses, undermine women’s social status, and hamper their equal participation in political and economic life. authorities of all countries should also continue their efforts to solve the problem of domestic violence.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection.– mr president, i am very glad that the commissioner addressed the values that the competition policy is based on: freedom and a level playing field for all. these are often forgotten. i also thank the rapporteur for an excellent report. as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) opinion, i am happy that the important elements from my report are here: fair competition in the public procurement markets and access for smes, but also completion of the digital single market and guarantees of net neutrality are vital to boost competition and foster innovation. as a liberal i am, however, disappointed that this report focuses too much on more regulation: more regulation, for instance, for the sharing economy, for the internet economy, which is actually one of the few sectors that still grew during the economic crisis. we seem to forget that we are representatives of millions of consumers but also of millions of business owners who rely on the eu competition policy to have the necessary confidence to start and run businesses. eu competition policy needs to contribute to building the right environment for innovative businesses to grow. what we need is a strong european competition authority which is proactive in adapting to the new, challenging and fast-moving markets of the digital economy. what we certainly do not need is to replace it with more regulation that will eventually only harm our most innovative businesses. i strongly hope that our liberal competition commissioner shares these views and i hope that colleagues in this house do so also.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to allocate eur 115 205 from the egf to poland, as it will help 615 people who lost their jobs in a chemical and chemical products company to return to the labour market. unemployment is one of the most painful problems in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to make large redundancies. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution to allocate eur 1 094 760 from the egf to germany, which will enable 657 people who lost their jobs as a result of redundancies to be reintegrated into the labour market. the economic crisis led to a dramatic increase in unemployment in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to allocate eur 981 956 from the egf to belgium, as it will enable us to help 708 people who lost their jobs in the steel sector to return to the labour market. unemployment is one of the most painful problems in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution to allocate eur 1 591 486 from the egf to belgium, which will enable the reintegration into the labour market of 1285 people who would have been unemployed as a result of redundancies. the economic crisis led to a dramatic increase in unemployment in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to allocate eur 1 222 854 from the egf to belgium, as it will enable us to help 1030 people who lost their jobs in the machinery and equipment manufacturing sector to return to the labour market. unemployment is one of the most painful problems in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposals to introduce maximum dimensions and maximum weights for certain vehicles, as this would improve the overall safety of vehicles. however, in order to avoid distortions of competition, each member state must take sufficient steps to control compliance and to reduce infringements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on long-term investment funds. the mobilisation and reallocation of capital helps to finance the eu's economic growth and increases employment and competitiveness. in order to mitigate the risks, these investments must be diversified.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for card-based interchange fees as it will help to reduce costs significantly in the long term. the distinction between domestic and cross-border payments hampers the functioning of the internal market and undermines competitiveness. promoting, simplifying and facilitating electronic payments also helps to combat the black market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution to allocate eur 1 339 928 from the egf to belgium, which will allow 257 people who would have been unemployed as a result of redundancies to be reintegrated into the labour market. the economic crisis led to a dramatic increase in unemployment in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on equality between women and men. i believe it is important that the european union engages consistently and systematically in reducing the gender pay gap and violence against women. women's lower wages not only affect their current economic security, but also future incomes such as pensions. women's lower wages also make them economically dependent on their partners.
in writing. ‒ i supported the projects because promoting competition encourages investment and stimulates the economy. given that cartels cause up to 3% of the european union's economy to suffer damage and that taxpayers are missing out on around €1 trillion a year due to tax fraud and tax evasion, competition policy is central to strengthening the single market as a whole and creating a fair environment. at the same time, however, the specific tax rates must take account of national specificities (e.g. geographical distance, which has a restrictive effect on competition) and be left to the national governments.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the 2013 annual report of the european central bank. i think it is important to restore investor confidence in the single currency. however, low interest rates have not led to job creation and expected growth, and this situation threatens economic stability.
madam president, it is often said in the media that the type of report mr fernandes has drafted will not attract a lot of attention, because it is only the first step in the budgetary process. i would like to say that the soothsayers are wrong, as mr fernandes’ report has already proved, and i advise them to pay a lot of attention to it, indeed primarily in the commission, but furthermore in the council, and especially the ministries of finance in member states. in particular, in the context of today’s debate, i would like to underline recital c, and points 7 and 10, and i would like to thank commissioner georgieva for understanding those points. i wish you all success in drafting the budget and defending it, together with parliament, against some narrow—minded and selfish instincts which may occur in the council, and i do hope that this year’s budget debate will be even fiercer than the last one.
the question of the blue card. my question concerns an important country in the region, serbia, which is itself a candidate country for european union membership. how do you assess serbia's recent impact on its neighbors? is this a positive development for these countries on their way to the european union, or is there something else to be noted?
the question of the blue card. until a few years ago, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia was one of the success stories of the western balkans. everything went well, with only positive assessments and notifications, and then each year macedonia's desire to start accession talks with the european union was rejected, even though it had long been a candidate country. how much of what you have just said - that things have gotten worse and worse - do you think is the fault of the disappointment in the expectations of macedonian society to start accession talks with the european union?
in writing.– the fiscal and economic credibility of the eu lies in complying with the rules. therefore i regret that france has for the third consecutive time failed to do so. i welcome the decision of the commission to scrutinise further france, but i remind the commission that a system of fiscal discipline, including penalties, has been established with collective efforts and political will. everybody without exception has to respect it. the credibility of the euro will depend on each and every member state meeting their commitments. the euro area crisis started many years ago with looking away from breaches of the established criteria by the two biggest member states. this provided a contagious example for the rest to follow on this slippery slope. i am also alarmed about the greek rhetoric. instead of providing a list of measures about conducting crucial reforms, one has to listen to threats and insults towards particular member states. the result will be undermining the eu as a whole. for me, it is problematic to explain to estonian people why they should, during the next years, bail out a government that shows so little responsibility towards its own people and for the sacrifices of solidarity by member states, some of them with a monthly minimum salary of less than eur 350.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on common rules for imports from third countries. these are essentially technical improvements, but in a broader sense common rules of the game help to increase competitiveness and avoid unfair advantage.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because it contributes to montenegro's rapprochement with the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft tariff quotas for quality beef, pork, poultrymeat, wheat and meslin and for bran, peppers and other residues from processing. it's not going to make any real difference.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft on the import of agricultural products from turkey into the eu. the proposal is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to grant turkey a preference for hazelnuts in the form of a community tariff quota and to suspend certain preferences. the proposal is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to amend the treaty on the mediterranean fisheries commission to clarify its objectives and tasks and to make it more effective. the protection and sustainable use of marine living resources, together with the protection of the ecosystems in which they live, are important for the so-called blue growth and sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the immunity of theodoros zagorakis, as he is subject to proceedings before a criminal court for possible judicial punishment for the alleged crime.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the immunity of sergei stanishev, as he has a case pending in bulgaria.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2016 budget of the european union. the commission should take due account of all identified priorities when drawing up the draft budget for 2016 in order to allocate the necessary resources to the relevant eu programmes and actions to meet these objectives. it is important that the eu budget is strongly leveraged and supports growth, competitiveness and job creation across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the 2013 report on the protection of the european union's financial interests and the fight against fraud. both the commission and the member states are obliged to do their utmost to combat fraud, corruption and any other illegal activities detrimental to the financial interests of the union, in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on montenegro's 2014 progress report. accession negotiations must be continued on the basis of the reforms implemented and the concrete results achieved, in particular in the areas of the rule of law, the media environment and the fight against corruption.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the 2014 progress report of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. accession negotiations must be launched without delay in order to maintain momentum and accelerate reforms of the eu legal order and strengthen the democratisation process. the delay in opening accession talks is aggravating the internal situation in that country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. i commend the serbian government for its efforts to align with the eu legislation in its pre-accession process. nevertheless, i recommend that the serbian government not use its urgency procedure too much and that it give enough time for the various actors in society to consult and discuss various items of legislation. i regret the statement by the serbian government that it would never agree with sanctions against russia. i call on the serbian government to bring its values and aims into line with eu foreign policy. russia is an aggressor violating the borders of its neighbouring country and conducting hybrid war against ukraine. undermining the european stand against an aggressor would undermine the whole european project, and i am sure that that is not the aim of serbia. i am also greatly worried about the situation regarding freedom of media and expression. media ownership has to be transparent. any attempts to influence independent media and censor critical voices are not in line with democratic values and cannot be tolerated. i call on the serbian authorities to seriously tackle the matter of freedom of media and expression and ensure compliance with european democratic values.
in writing. ‒ the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo is an example of the strong positive impact of the european union's perspective. while the early elections in both serbia and kosovo have slowed down the pace of negotiations between the two countries, the countries should move forward with the improvement of relations and continue in a timely manner with the full implementation of all agreements already reached. serbia should make greater efforts to align its foreign and security policy, including its policy towards russia, with that of the eu. for example, serbia did not follow the call to take over the restrictive measures imposed on russia by eu decisions, and serbia conducted joint military exercises with russia.
in writing. ‒ the normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo is an example of the strong positive impact of the european union's perspective. while the early elections in both serbia and kosovo have slowed down the pace of negotiations between the two countries, the countries should move forward with the improvement of relations and continue in a timely manner with the full implementation of all agreements already reached. the recognition of kosovo's sovereignty by the five eu member states that have not yet done so would also contribute to the normalisation of belgrade-pristina relations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european semester and the analysis of economic growth in 2015. the euro area is still grappling with the consequences of the unusually long post-2008 recession. the economic recovery remains fragile and needs to be strengthened to achieve significantly higher growth and employment in the medium term.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european semester and the 2015 analysis of economic growth in terms of employment and social aspects. the economic and social situation in the eu remains weak and the recovery remains uncertain. the eu must continue to improve its economic and social policies with a view to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy as soon as possible. stimulate smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and create better and sustainable jobs. solidarity is a fundamental value on which the european union is founded.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the governance of the single market in the context of the european semester 2015. the single market is the main driver for growth and job creation and is essential to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. however, this potential is still untapped in many respects. member states and regions will have the opportunity to focus their policies and investments in 2014-2020 on sectors that will create more growth and jobs, especially for young people, such as the digital single market, energy, services and the green economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill because children's rights must be protected in the best and most effective way. serious crimes such as the sexual exploitation of children require a holistic approach, including protection, care, prevention and prosecution of child victims. states must fully implement the un convention on the rights of the child and in particular its general principles.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for a resolution because sexual abuse and exploitation of children, including child pornography and child prostitution, are very cruel crimes and a serious violation of fundamental rights. smartphones readily available to children and unskilled internet use are a danger to children themselves. it is important to raise awareness among parents and children of the potential dangers on the internet to avoid becoming a victim. efforts to combat child sexual exploitation online more effectively are essential. strengthen the legal basis for prosecuting criminals and pay more attention to preventing such offences.
mr president, firstly i want to express my deep sorrow for the loss of boris nemtsov, a friend of many of us. he was killed not only by the gunmen: he was killed, as has been said, by an atmosphere of hatred; he was killed by this propaganda war launched by putin against the west, against democracy and against all of us. we can see how russia, putin’s russia, is shifting towards the darkest times, similar to the 1930s – it is not a coincidence that the murder of nemtsov has been mentioned already as a parallel with the murder of sergei kirov, which was the start of stalinist dark times in the soviet union. we can see too that this new, emerging neo-stalinism in russia is characterised by the very skilful use of new media. in the information war, it is one of the strongest tools for the massive brainwashing of young people in russia and also all over the world. this is a very dangerous trend. i am sorry to say that putin’s regime is encouraged by our own reluctance – that of us, the west, democratic public opinion – to recognise the full scale of the threat emerging from these current developments. the european union should apply relevant counter—measures against this global brainwashing machinery created by russia because we can see that it is expanding. now they plan to raise the budget by 40% to be able to communicate not only in english but also in french and german, all over europe and all over the world. in this context i also want to give a message of warning to those politicians and journalists who sometimes repeat ideas they pick up from russia today and other channels – among them the idea that baltic countries will be easy targets. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i join colleagues in expressing my deepest condolences to the family and friends of boris nemtsov. his name has very sadly been added to the far—too—long list of russian politicians and journalists murdered for speaking out against the system. i grew up during soviet times with stories from my mother who was deported to siberia in a animal wagon when she was just six months old; of my grandfather who was sent to a prison camp; of my grandmother who lost two children during the war. every family in our country has a similar story and so do russian families. i still remember the fear of wondering what might happen to my father who opposed the regime. therefore, i understand the fears that the opposition in russia might have. speaking up in russia for democracy, fundamental freedoms and respect for the rule of law takes lots of courage. opposing putin’s regime takes a lot of courage. i wanted therefore to express my admiration for those who speak out in russia, but also to remind ourselves that, as politicians of europe, where we have no reason to be afraid, we do not have any excuse for not speaking out against what is happening in russia and in ukraine.
mr president, this murder is not a separate case; it is part of a system that is, in our friend kasyanov’s words, moving from an authoritarian regime to a classic fascism regime of the 1930s. this regime has launched war against the civilised world but at the same time it has started war against its own civil society. the labelling of civil activists in state—controlled propaganda as internal enemies has created an atmosphere in russia that is pregnant with violence and murders. mr putin has to take responsibility for it directly or indirectly. russia has now reached a turning point, but i think mr putin’s miscalculation must have been the unexpected unity of the eu reaction. sanctions have started to make their impact. now we should not be hesitant about them; the black list has to be extended to media persons who are responsible for spreading hatred, lies and aggressive nationalism. putin’s aggression has to be stopped in ukraine. this means forcing him to retreat from conquered areas to prove that aggression does not pay off, because otherwise the war in europe will expand. i also call on all of us, especially our high representative, to do our utmost to get freedom for two hostages: nadia savchenko – still on the verge of dying – and eston kohver, both kidnapped from their own territory.
the president of the republic! first, my deepest sympathy to the family of boris nemtsov and to the russian society as a whole, but unfortunately this is not the only violent incident in russia in recent times. six months ago, russian authorities abducted estonian police officer eston koffer, who is still in moscow's lefortovo prison. russia has taken over his life for six months, he is separated from his children, his family and loved ones, his health is deteriorating and his future is completely uncertain. so far, russia has not heeded the wishes and demands of estonia, the european union, the council of europe and many other countries to release and repatriate eston koffer. the european parliament's forthcoming resolution also addresses this issue and calls for kohver's immediate release. but the eston koffer abduction case is one of the many clear and visible human rights violations that russia has committed in recent times. it's in line with the harassment of ukrainian pilot savchenko, the opposition and civil society.
in writing.– it is difficult to believe, that the assassination of the leader of the opposition boris nemtsov, right after he promoted a rally condemning the war in ukraine, and just before he was due to publish a report containing evidence of russian involvement in the war, is coincidental. it is the latest in a series of high-profile murders of anti-corruption activists, human rights campaigners, and critics of the regime. even the slightest possibility of providing mistral warships to russia in the foreseeable future has to be forgotten, since the number and severity of breaches of human rights, rule of law, and principles of democracy have done nothing but increase exponentially. amidst the constant flow of grim news emanating from russia, let us not forget that russian authorities are still illegally detaining several government officials from neighbouring countries such as ukrainian mp nadia savchenko and estonian security officer eston kohver. the eu has to strongly condemn the kidnapping of mr kohver, and demand his immediate release, not only for the well-being of the individual concerned, but because the eu cannot afford to send the signal that its member states’ citizens and officials can be abducted from eu territory with impunity.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.– madam president, first of all let me take the opportunity to pay tribute to the long-standing support of this parliament for a strong european union in the world. i also want to commend the vision and the perseverance of the rapporteur elmar brok. i know he has called for many years for the european union to develop a more proactive, forward-looking approach to its foreign policy – in other words to develop a more strategic view of its role in the world, and let me say that i could not agree more with this kind of approach. today’s debate is for me mainly a good opportunity to listen to good ideas, to learn from your insight. in the spirit of your report i also take it as a chance to look above and beyond the immediate crises that garner our attention and frustrations as well. indeed, the breadth, depth and complexity of the challenges we face is such that we cannot afford other than to do many things, and rather fast, at the same time. first, obviously, we must tackle decisively and with all our instruments together the immediate and urgent crises we face on our doorsteps, from ukraine to libya. i would say that we have the opportunity every month to discuss – not just in plenary but also in the commission, in the committee – many of those, and we will have a debate on libya further on in the afternoon. this crisis requires a sort of 24/7 attention. we have just had an informal foreign affairs meeting in riga last friday and saturday, which i debriefed the committee on foreign affairs (afet) on, and we are going to have a foreign affairs council on monday on, in particular, the crisis in ukraine and the situation in libya. this was also the core of my talks on monday with the un secretary-general in new york, and the content of my briefing to the un security council, also on monday. i guess most of your interventions will also come back to the crisis issue so i might be relatively briefer on that and pay a little bit more attention at this stage to the rest of it because, secondly, while we do everything possible to solve the tragic situations in our neighbourhood, we must also work to strengthen our partnerships with other regions and key players which, distant as they may seem, are also essential to build the rules—based global order that is advocated by your report. this is essential to manage the emergencies of today, to prevent the crises of tomorrow, and to shape the order of the future, as we cannot really say we have a world order today. i can mention ttip and its crucial economic and geopolitical importance; or latin america and the caribbean which we will discuss in april at the foreign affairs council as a strategic item ahead of the summit celac will hold in june; asia, rightly highlighted by your report, or indeed africa, where we must build a new relationship based on the logic of a true partnership among equals. we will have a full discussion on africa next monday with the foreign ministers. our relations with international and regional organisations, be it the un, the league of arab states, the african union, asean, or celac, are of paramount importance in this regard and, as recommended in your report, they take a significant amount of my energy. in this context, i also want to mention two international negotiations that will shape the contours of the future in a decisive way and where we are engaging diplomatically, but also politically, at all levels with our partners: climate change and post-2015. we have a special responsibility and a special role to play as europeans, and we will discuss mainly the issue of post-2015 with the development ministers tomorrow but, as you might know, i decided to work on a diplomatic action plan at the beginning of last january to make sure that we get to the climate conference in paris in december with not only good and concrete results, but also a clear leadership role for the european union. this is what the world expects from us, and our citizens, too. third, while we do all that, which means tackling the crises, developing partnerships and negotiating the agreements that should underpin a better world, we must also think further to develop the kind of strategic ammunition that will enable the european union to be more effective and influential in the future. we cannot hide behind the routines of the past. the biggest risk in these risky times is, i think, not to take any risk, because the european union can and must do more and better than that, better than developing partnerships, negotiating agreements, managing crises and hopefully solving them. this is necessary but it is not sufficient and it would certainly be enough already for a 24/7 commitment. but in these times of turbulence and often unprecedented changes – as you rightly said – we need to develop a new, broader and more ambitious approach. we need to start thinking in a really strategic way. as part of this strategic work, i should of course mention the work i have launched on the future of the european security strategy – or rather the european security and foreign policy strategy, as we might possibly find we need to do – but also the review of the european neighbourhood policy (enp) and the preparation of the june european council on defence which we will have the chance to debate in may on the basis of the danjean report. our duties do not, of course, end here and, as your report rightly underlines, the european union must be a credible actor if it is to succeed in any of these challenges. so we must make the european union, including its policies and tools, faster, flexible and more effective. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the many ideas included in this report. i have to say that i agree with most of them and i am actually already implementing many of them, including three very important ones to me. first of all, playing my role as vice—president to the full to improve the coherence and consistency of our internal and external policies: not just the group of external commissioners that meets regularly every month – and more than once a month sometimes – but also the work we are doing together with other commissioners and vice—presidents on energy, counter—terrorism and security, and migration, just to mention a few. migration will be tackled at the next foreign affairs council, together with commissioner avramopoulos, as we need to cross the lines between the internal and external instruments we have. second, the work to increase coordination between the european union and the european union member states, looking for synergies and common action – i think the work we have undertaken on bosnia and herzegovina is a perfect example of that – and ensuring that initiatives of the european union member states are developed into a broader and more effective european union framework, as was the case for the minsk agreement and the negotiations that were conducted in the normandy format. third, to make the foreign affairs council more strategic and operational in its working methods. here let me, maybe, try to make a suggestion also about the working methods of this parliament; maybe we could find ways of having a more strategic and focused way of working in plenary for our sessions too. this work is big, your report is very comprehensive and time is short, but i will try to address some elements that are key to me. first, the european security strategy. eleven years ago javier solana did some excellent work which is still very inspiring, still referring to an endeavour that was putting the european union in the condition of being the most prosperous and secure which, i am afraid, is definitely not the case anymore. everything has changed and we have changed very much as well. it is important to take stock of the dramatic changes in the landscape surrounding us, changes affecting both our more immediate proximity and the world at large and, in fact, in europe as well. this is why, as i announced in parliament some time ago, i have launched a process of strategic reflection to guide european union foreign security policy. the new strategy will give us a sense of direction and the ability to set priorities and to make choices. it should also help us determine how best to mobilise all our instruments and develop partnerships to serve our common goals. my intention is go through successive steps. as a first step, i intend to identify the changes which have occurred and the challenges and opportunities they present the european union with. at the same time, i intend to assess the performance of the european union policies – cfsp and csdp as well as external eu policies – against this challenging backdrop. is the european union up to the task? this is the big question we have to answer. the next step should be the strategy itself: a common vision identifying the ground for common actions. a common european interest identifying our role in the world should also help develop a narrative to communicate our foreign policy to a wider audience and make it a collective, common tool. this is why, although it is a task that i am honoured to take on myself as a responsibility, i see it as a collective effort. european policy and even more than that, european foreign policy, is first of all about effective teamwork. sometimes i am accused of being naïve on that, but i really do think working together is the key to successful diplomatic and political work when it comes to foreign security policy. i am reaching out, even in these weeks and days, not only to governments, but also to think tanks, ngos, the foreign policy community at large, and certainly to parliaments: national parliaments, as well as the european parliament. such an engagement with the european parliament is for me a real added value and i am certain it will continue throughout the process. anyway, today we are expected to discuss not just the strategic review, because we will have opportunities to do so in the months that will come, but the report which parliament has prepared on the basis of the report adopted by the council. i took the liberty of introducing the discussion with some remarks on our strategic approach to foreign policy to underline the convergence of views between what i am personally trying to do and the course of action which is advocated in parliamentʼs report in this specific respect. the neighbourhood is the first and more immediate test of this ambition. if europe does not succeed in addressing the difficult crises and challenges it faces in the immediate proximity of its borders, it cannot be the credible international actor which parliamentʼs report rightly calls for the european union to be. thinking and acting more strategically in our neighbourhood is an imperative. we have launched the review of the european neighbourhood policy (enp). it was about one decade ago that the european union adopted our neighbourhood policy. it was meant to bring stability and prosperity all around us and, i can say, 10 years afterwards, that reality has severely tested this noble aspiration. in all fairness, there are a few qualified success stories in our neighbourhood. i could cite georgia and moldova to the east, tunisia and morocco to the south or the way in which lebanon and jordan, whose strategic importance is rightly emphasised in the report, are coping with the daunting challenge of accommodating millions of refugees, and i would like here to thank his majesty the king of jordan for the excellent words he addressed to this chamber yesterday. to be sure, a reviewed enp would not alone solve the crises; not for sure in ukraine, in libya or in syria. but it might equip countries like moldova, georgia, tunisia, morocco, and perhaps jordan and lebanon, with state structures and resources to resist external and internal pressures more effectively, and also provide us europeans with the truly equal political partnership we need to work effectively in our region, to make common interests, as we have common challenges, emerge and to develop partnerships that are able to make us more effective in the region. we need to reflect on what has gone right and wrong in the enp and we should not shy away from the challenge of revisiting the scope of the neighbourhood itself, so as to take into proper account, for example, the link with africa, as suggested by the report itself. we also need to look further into differentiation which parliamentʼs report identifies as a key ingredient for future policies. we are conducting a deep and wide consultation and we need to strengthen local ownership of the policy by our partners and make sure that their views on the policy become central too. we need to be more strategic on all our policies, all of them. we need to broaden our understanding of development. 2015 is a crucial year for us – it is the european year for development. it is also the year where we negotiate the post-2015 development agenda and the millennium development goals have shown us that setting goals for ourselves helps us in advancing, but we have also seen some of the limits. we did not sufficiently take into account the interconnections between development, human rights, and peace and security. the european union is uniquely placed to make a contribution to a more comprehensive, effective, development policy. we need to connect the dots to make the difference: by focusing on all dimensions of development, by working with all partners around the globe, including the new players, and by addressing shortcomings in our own societies for the sake of equality, but also for our own credibility. another policy where we need more strategic thinking is, for sure, our policy on defence. we have to finally build a common european political will that will make it possible for us to use all the tools we already have in the treaty, as the rapporteur just mentioned. i know i can count not only on my personal efforts and conviction but also on the commitment, in this respect, of all of you. i know how this parliament is strongly committed to developing such a policy. we will devote a specific debate to this issue in may, but let me say that the european council on defence in june is first of all very important: it is on defence; secondly, it should be more than a stocktaking exercise. to be credible, our words must be matched with deeds and the narrative is clear. if defence, as the european council has established, matters now even more than ever, and the european union has to act as a provider of security, it needs to be backed with proper capabilities and a stronger defence industry. and here, let me recall the words of mr brok about the role of the european defence agency and i am personally committed to increasing its role. parliamentʼs report rightly reminds us that the full potential of the treaty has still to be fully used: for example, the provisions on permanent structured corporation. let me assure you about my personal commitment to building a political space for a european defence to be developed. and here we will need to work together to make sure that the member states, public opinion, and national parliaments will be on board in this exercise. the next debate we have on the agenda will allow us to discuss another important element on which we will need to be more strategic – our human rights policy, which i consider to be essential – as well as others which i will refer to very quickly but which we can come back to in the debate on this, be it energy, counterterrorism or migration. these are fields where we need to work not only inside the commission in a cross—sectorial way, but also among these different institutions – the commission, the council and parliament – in a more coordinated way. i know i have been too long, so let me stop here. i just would like to finish with two general remarks, or rather reminders. first, the old dividing lines between foreign and domestic policies are, i think, a thing of the past. the european unionʼs best answer to the new reality we are facing is to cross the lines between foreign and domestic policies. we will only be able to project our power, be it soft or hard, outside if we are strong inside. a strong cfsp needs a powerful european union in the first place and this is a task that concerns all of us. second, let us not be confused or naive. if our member states want to master their fate in today’s fast changing and difficult world they can only do it by thinking and acting together. we can persist in the illusory satisfaction of multiple national strategies that might sound very good on paper but lead, as we have painfully learned in our history, to unavoidable deception. or, we can be truthful to ourselves and to each other and invest in our collective power as the only reasonable path to a future where our views and aspirations matter. the old narrative about a clash between national and european interests is simply wrong, is simply out of time. strong policy does not call for member states to give up their foreign policies; on the contrary each country would serve better its national interest by maximising our common action with their strength and expertise. strong european union, what i have not hesitated to call in this very same chamber a superpower, is simply the only alternative to the mistakes of the past or the fortress of the future. some have forgotten the tragic and repeated mistakes of our european history and let me say: i have not. others resort to the politics of fear and the illusion that we can lock ourselves into a fortress europe: i do not. if we do not tackle the problems of the world, the problems of the world will come to us. common foreign and security policy is not just about diplomacy or security. it is above all, as you know very well in this house, about political will. we face tough choices and europe needs to be pragmatic and ambitious at once: we need high ambitions; we need common sense and collective action. i know i can count on you to overcome the temptation of the old way of thinking because in the next few years our choices will matter more than we can already imagine today. thank you very much for the report and for the debate which i will be listening to.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets.– mr president, i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy for her speech. as usual, it has been a great honour and pleasure to work with mr brok, not only because of his great sense of humour but also because of his expertise and his knowledge of foreign policy. my task is more complicated because i have to tackle the budget side of foreign policy and, as you know, that is not always easy. every policy area, including that of common security and foreign policy, must have proper financial back—up. that is why, ms mogherini, i would like to ask you to become a true, specific, strategic and forceful ally to ms georgieva in the commission’s effort to overcome the payment problems, because in 2013 we were short eur 80 million for foreign policy goals. last year was no better, so we have to do something about that, and i urge you to apply all the pressure you can on the member states’ governments to address this issue. if you put up a good fight on the issue of the budget, i would like to offer you the icing on the cake by transferring special representatives’ monies from the commission’s hands to those of the european external action service. i am not someone who accuses you of being naïve – au contraire, i can easily envisage you standing in front of us within a year and explaining to us the way to move towards a united european defence force.
good mrs. mogherini, good colleagues! the unity of the european union's foreign and security policy is of paramount importance in the face of the growing tensions in the european union's shared neighbourhood, both to the south and to the east. the current conflict between russia and ukraine is a serious challenge to the unity of the european union, which has been handled quite well so far, but this line must be maintained in the future. the conflicts in the european union's southern neighbourhood also require our unity and strength. we must try to intervene more boldly in offering and seeking solutions to these conflicts. the european union has a good track record of mediation in serbia and kosovo and this strength and experience should be used to find solutions in other regions. however, the european external action service should also be given a consular function, at least in the event of major crises, so that citizens of the european union countries can also receive assistance from the european union's network of representations worldwide. the greatest challenge facing the eu's external security policy is how to deal with the situation where the eu's soft power has collided with russian weapons. standing up for democratic freedoms and the protection of human rights are the driving forces that have a positive impact on both the countries that have problems with them and europe itself. it is in europe's interest, above all, that our immediate neighbourhood is peaceful and democratic, and for this the european union must continue to pursue a clear enlargement policy and a neighbourhood policy. if the european union is successful in its immediate neighbourhood, success can be expected further afield. the european union must strengthen its cooperation with nato and with countries that share our values, because in today's world, friends are never too many.
madam president, i welcome the high representative’s statement that the eu has to start thinking in a strategic way. but now that we are facing the biggest instability in our neighbourhood, i am wondering whether we also need to act in a strategic and global way. our security situation has worsened dramatically, and thus it is possible that different crucibles of conflict will spread contagion and develop synergies. this requires stronger and more coherent eu common policies. first of all, we need to increase coherence of cfsp with other policies of external dimension. i call on you, high representative, to develop strategic priorities for applying the external energy policy in a more coordinated way, and to achieve clarity and unity on the practical use of solidarity mechanisms. lastly, mainstreaming cyber defence into common foreign and security policy and providing political impetus to the eda is enforcing cyber defence cooperation between member states.
president-in-office of the council, vice—president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i am speaking again on behalf of the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. i am very glad to address the european parliament on the relations between the european union and the league of arab states (las) including cooperation in countering terrorism. since the upheavals started in 2011, the arab world has gone through a wave of political changes, some of which have resulted in democratic processes, and a number of which have, for the time being at least, led to outright conflict. still others have seen revolution overturned and some have seen no change. this has transformed the geopolitical landscape. today, on its south-eastern and southern flanks, the eu is facing an arc of conflicts and crises – from iraq, syria and an unresolved middle east conflict, to libya and the sahel, with spillover effects throughout the region. co—operation with our partners in the arab world is essential if we are to address the regional challenges and threats which they and we face. security threats, of course, include jihadist terrorism and transnational crime. there are humanitarian challenges, including the catastrophe of millions of refugees and displaced persons on our doorstep, and social and economic development challenges need to be addressed – especially the lack of employment and opportunities for youth. we are ready to assist with the effort in meeting these challenges both bilaterally and at a regional level. in this demanding context, the league of arab states is a vital partner for the eu. it has legitimacy as the only pan-regional organisation bringing together all arab countries. if its crisis management capabilities are properly reinforced – and with the political willingness of its member states – it will contribute to tackling the challenges that were just mentioned. it reinforces arab co-ownership therefore facilitating the implementation of eu policies in the region. i firmly believe that there is untapped potential in our relationship with the league, which is in our interest to reinforce. so it is clear ‘why’ we engage. now let me give an overview of ‘how’ we engage. the eu and the league of arab states have indeed strengthened our relationship recently. less than two months ago, the secretary—general of the league of arab states, dr nabil elaraby, visited brussels and we co-signed a memorandum of understanding on co-operation between our organisations. dr elaraby also addressed eu foreign ministers and this parliament. in all these meetings, he stressed the need for stronger euro-arab co—operation and made clear his support in the fight against terrorism. in june last year, a successful eu-las foreign affairs ministerial meeting was held in athens. almost 50 foreign ministers agreed to launch an unprecedented strategic dialogue as a platform for exchange on political and security matters (including crisis management, humanitarian assistance, counter-terrorism, the fight against organised crime and weapons of mass destruction). beyond dialogue, the aim is to tackle these various issues through operational engagement with both the league secretariat and las member states. counter-terrorism is a particular priority for the eu at the present time. the council conclusions adopted last month gave us a mandate to tackle terrorism at regional level, engaging with organisations such as the las. as i said before, the league is also committed to addressing this threat. the arab foreign ministers have in fact been discussing terrorism this week. in this context, we are exploring some concrete initiatives in the counter-terrorism field. a project on countering radicalisation and foreign fighters will be launched soon for the middle east and north africa (mena) region. we would also like to work on capacity-building measures in the fields of law enforcement, criminal justice, security sector reform, paying due regard to international human rights standards, in close co—operation with europol, eurojust, frontex and cepol, and to address the ‘foreign fighters’ phenomenon, as agreed at the athens meeting. a concrete, positive example of how we can engage to jointly tackle common threats is the eu-funded crisis room in the league’s headquarters. this is an ongoing project which aims to build up a pan-arab early warning mechanism to deal with catastrophes and crises. our co-operation is not limited to political and security matters. since 2012 we have a joint work program of co-operation in various fields, from human rights to energy, and other activities are being planned. i would like to focus now on how the eu and the las work together on human rights. since 2012, the eu and the las have identified common priorities, developed a number of initiatives, and engaged regularly including with the arab human rights charter committee and the arab national human rights institutions. the council of europe has also been involved in some of this work. key topics have included women’s empowerment, promotion and protection of human rights in line with international standards, engagement with civil society and co-operation on election observation. the eu is committed to ensuring that human rights are mainstreamed in our activities across the board. it is particularly important that we do so in the context of counter-terrorism. it is also important that we engage in cultural dialogue. last april, for example, we organised a dialogue in cairo on ‘co—existence and acceptance of the other’ and next month we will have a dialogue in brussels on ‘freedom of expression and freedom of association and assembly’.
on behalf of the ppe group.– madam president, may i welcome on behalf of the ppe group the perspective of possible eu-arab cooperation in the fight against terrorism. the memorandum of understanding signed in january may look like a modest start, but has immense positive potential. it could well become the start of the eu-league of arab states strategic dialogue. it is clear that to defeat isis it is mandatory to have all countries of the region on board, each making an active contribution. it is necessary to jointly identify challenges, shared goals and possibilities for common actions to counter the terrorist expansion. king abdullah expressed it very well yesterday, that this fight has to be carried out by muslim countries first and foremost. it is crucial to take jointly and exchange information on sources and means of terrorist financing. also a joint mechanism to control the illegal arms trade and cut the roots of jihadist volunteers will have significant practical value. it is clear that in fighting terrorism the fundamental rights of people have to be safeguarded. better protection of human rights by our arab partners would help to develop the culture of tolerance and inclusion in the region. arab-eu cooperation should be used to better protect terrorist-targeted religious and cultural minorities of the middle east and will certainly help to implement king abdullahʼs declaration that christians form an integral part of the arab past, as well as its future.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution strongly condemning the killing of the russian opposition leader boris nemtsov. this is the most significant political assassination in russia's recent history. the active russian propaganda activities aimed at russian society as well as other countries contribute to the incitement of hostilities. the resolution also condemns the abduction of estonian defence police officer eston kohver from estonian territory and calls on the russian authorities to release kohver immediately and return him to estonia. the investigation into the downing of the malaysian airliner and the prosecution of those responsible must also be completed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report because it is in europe's interest first and foremost that our immediate neighbourhood should be pacified and democratized. to this end, the european union must continue to pursue a clear enlargement and neighbourhood policy. if the european union is successful in its immediate neighbourhood, success can be expected further afield. the european union must strengthen its cooperation with nato and with countries that share the same values as the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported the annual report on human rights and democracy. respect for and protection of the universality and indivisibility of human rights are the cornerstones of the eu's foreign and security policy. several authoritarian regimes have seriously questioned the universality of human rights. the eu must protect the indivisibility and inviolability of human rights. identify early warning signals of potential conflicts and humanitarian disasters, such as repression of minorities and human rights violations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the memorandum of understanding on eu-arab league counter-terrorism cooperation, as i believe it is important to develop dialogue and cooperation in areas of common interest, in particular on political and security issues and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill because, given the poor state of the stock of blue whiting, the protection of the species requires measures at european level to manage the fishery for this species.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill because respect for, and promotion and protection of, the universality of human rights is part of the european union's ethical and legal code and a cornerstone of european unity and integrity. all states have an obligation to respect the fundamental rights of their citizens and to take concrete measures to guarantee these rights. a very strong emphasis should be placed on combating terrorism and curbing extremism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the situation in venezuela is taking dramatic turns. president maduro is systematically trying to clamp down any democratic opposition. further, he has authorized using firearms against demonstrators protesting against the government politics. up to 40 protesters have been killed as consequence of extreme police brutality, more than 1700 are awaiting trial, 69 are imprisoned. venezuelan authorities must immediately release antonio ledezma who was arbitrarily detained on 19.02.2015, leopoldo lópez who has been detained in a military prison for more than a year and suffered physical, psychological torture and solitary confinement, daniel ceballos, all peaceful protesters, students and opposition leaders arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and their fundamental rights, in line with the demands made by several un bodies and international organisations. further venezuelan authorities should withdraw the unfounded accusations against them. antonio ledezma, leopoldo lópez, daniel ceballos and all other political prisoners must be ensured any medical attention they may require, as well as immediate, private and regular access to their families and to lawyers of their choice. i urge the eeas, and the ep to meet the venezuelan opposition politicians and activists and discuss the grave situation and provide them with needed support.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the situation in venezuela. the violence that has deepened the conflict must be stopped, and talks must be launched with the participation of all political forces to ensure public security and safety and to return to peace and normality. the government of venezuela must abide by its constitution and international obligations.
in writing.– renewed commitment to creating an eu energy union is too crucial in the new security situation to be watered down by typical national differences. a working energy union means developing coherent energy diplomacy, based on eu core values. i call for the synchronisation of the baltic states’ energy systems with european continental networks to be speeded up. remembering the first anniversary of the russian annexation of crimea, the eu must take care that this outrageous act against international order will not be overshadowed by further fighting in eastern ukraine. i congratulate president tusk on having achieved the highest common denominator in applying restrictions on russia. however, the slightest rift in unity, or any nervous attempt to shortcut the way back to realpolitik, could encourage putin to continue his brinkmanship. we are at a breaking point. sanctions have started to make an impact. therefore i encourage all hesitant member states to make eu policy vis-a-vis russia more united, more ambitious and more pro-active, to use president tusk’s terms. the eu has to keep the sanctions going until the minsk agreements are fully implemented. that implementation must include crimea, which was not mentioned by name in minsk.
madam president, more than a year ago ukrainians were protesting in kiev for closer european integration. a few weeks ago some were back on the streets but for different reasons: heating price increases, inflation and the collapse of the currency. it is our responsibility, as partners and allies of ukraine, to provide financial support but it is also our responsibility to help ukraine with long-term rather than short-term solutions. these solutions are reforms – reforms to restore confidence by reinforcing the rule of law, tackling corruption and taking measures to improve the business environment. my country, estonia, went through these painful reforms for the long-term benefits of a sustainable future. only ukraine, as a sovereign country, can deliver these reforms but, as the european union, we need to ensure that we provide the right assistance that will contribute to changing ukraine for the better and transforming ukraine’s future.
madam president, it is of the utmost importance that we grant ukraine the third macro-financial assistance package of eur 1.8 billion. this may not be the end of ukraine’s needs and we must be ready for that. ukraine needs to go on with its reforms, the most crucial ones being the fight against corruption, reforming the security forces and the taxation system, and making the business environment better. trust must be restored in the banking sector, avoidance of tax payments must be resolved and transparency enhanced. we need to move on with the consultations on a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement (dcfta) and this should not lead to the further postponement of the eu-dcfta beyond 1 january 2016. of course, ukraine’s future depends on when and how the conflict can be resolved in eastern ukraine. therefore the sanctions against russia must be prolonged until the minsk agreements are fully implemented. if necessary, sanctions must be broadened. and the occupation of crimea has to stop.
in writing.– helping ukraine in rebuilding its economy and providing advice regarding structural reforms is a very important and honourable task, since these solid building blocks are a necessity for a sustainable future for ukraine. unfortunately, our efforts to help ukraine in the long term would be largely undermined if france were to provide mistral warships to russia. right now, the french are waiting for an improvement in the conflict, like an effective ceasefire or at least a temporary stagnation in its perpetual escalation, in order to be able to deliver these warships to russia. this is the wrong attitude towards this problem, since we have to keep in mind the bigger picture. even if we make progress towards solving the conflict in ukraine, we must remember this was not an isolated incident in russia’s aggressive expansionism in the region. unless regime change happens in russia, there will never be a right time to provide military equipment to a country that does not respect the territorial integrity of its neighbours, and where opponents of the regime are murdered. since france cannot sell these warships to russia at any time in the near future, a different buyer for these ships has to be sought.
in writing.– roma are the largest ethnic minority group in europe. today many roma are living in very poor conditions, have lost their jobs and housing and are finding it difficult to support themselves and their families. they are often facing racism, discrimination and social exclusion. in order to integrate roma people into european societies we must recognise them, learn about them and teach our children their history. that is the key to understanding and overcoming hatred and racism. the killing of roma during wwii, a process called porrajmos, can be considered one of the largest mass killing in history. this cannot be forgotten. i therefore support the idea of having a european memorial day of the genocide of the roma.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to allocate eur 5 046 000 from the egf to greece, as it will help 928 people who lost their jobs as a result of redundancies to return to the labour market. unemployment is one of the most painful problems in the european union. with the egf, we can mobilise these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the european parliament's resolution to allocate eur 3 746 700 from the egf to greece, which will allow 705 people who lost their jobs as a result of redundancies to be reintegrated into the labour market. the economic crisis led to a dramatic increase in unemployment in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can put these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of the immunity of antónio marinho e pinto, since he is the subject of a pending case in portugal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of immunity of ivan jakovčić, as he has a case pending in croatia.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to allocate eur 2 490 758 from the egf to ireland, as it will help put 424 people back on the labour market who lost their jobs at lufthansa technik airmotive ireland ltd in ireland. unemployment is one of the most painful problems in the european union. structural change and globalisation have led many companies to lay off large numbers of employees or close their doors. with the egf, we can put these people back into the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for waiver of immunity of viktor uspaski, as he has a case pending in lithuania.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. providing macro-financial assistance to ukraine is of high importance, considering that political support in ukraine depends largely on economic sustainability and providing basic welfare to the citizens. it is our obligation to aid an economy that had negative growth numbers in 2014 due to the crisis and violent intervention. the eu and also other international financial institutions have to be ready to continue with such assistance measures and loans. nevertheless one of the conditions should be progress in conducting internal reforms in ukraine, ensuring transparency on how the money is used and most importantly fighting against corruption on all levels. i am glad that all major political groups have expressed their solidarity with the proposal of my colleague gabrielius landsbergis, even if the communists and extreme right have once again joined in not supporting ukraine, or its european course.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to provide ukraine with eur 1.8 billion in macro-financial assistance. the eu is thus showing its unwavering support for ukraine's reforms. ukraine is in a very difficult situation as it seeks to implement the necessary reforms at a time when the eastern part of the country is in an armed conflict and part of the ukrainian territory - crimea - has been illegally annexed by russia. trade restrictions by russia and the escalation of the ukrainian-russian territorial dispute are further aggravating circumstances. by providing additional macro-financial assistance to ukraine, the eu is demonstrating its readiness to support those countries that, in difficult economic and political times, are implementing the reforms that are necessary for the country. we have stressed the need for change in ukraine, and it is important to show by our actions that we take our political commitments seriously.
in writing. ‒ over the past year, ukraine's economic situation has deteriorated for a number of reasons: the armed conflict in the donbas, corruption, ineffective governance and the failure to implement reforms. the only thing that will save ukraine from total insolvency is another loan from the international monetary fund, which will have to be repaid at some point. the european union's macro-financial assistance should facilitate the implementation of reforms and stabilise the financial situation in ukraine.
in writing. - i supported the report. each year, an estimated €1 trillion of potential tax revenue is lost in the eu due to tax fraud and tax avoidance. this poses a major risk to the efficiency and fairness of eu tax systems and increases the tax burden on good citizens and businesses. a balanced and growth-oriented tax system is essential for sustainable economic growth and there are not yet enough concrete measures to achieve this. taxation must be transparent, tax fraud must be fought more vigorously, tax obstacles must be removed and the administrative burden on businesses must be reduced.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, like other speakers, i am very satisfied that this mff adaptation is happening and that even the darkest corner of our legislative triangle – the council, i mean – is not causing any problems. programmes under shared management present a series of difficulties. they are often highly prone to errors as member states put more emphasis on spending a maximum amount of eu money than on the quality of the projects supported. these errors have resulted in the non-certification of eu spending for years. the commission is hesitant to control member states too much for political reasons and is relying on member states’ control systems, which are often inadequate. therefore, it is often parliament which has to defend the principles of good management and quality spending when it comes to programmes under shared management. in this context, the delays we are witnessing today in the implementation of a new generation of shared management programmes are not necessarily entirely negative if they result in the setting-up of quality control systems which would guarantee that finally most of the funds, if not all the funds, are well spent. from a budgetary point of view, i am just worried that the postponement of a significant sum of commitments – we are talking about eur 21 billion – will increase even more the pressure on the already very tight level of payments, and that the council will ignore the increased need for payments in later years once more. but the green group, with its powerful 50+ votes, will of course support the adaptation of the mff and joins the chorus of congratulations to the rapporteurs.
mr president, we commemorate today the tragic death of 1.5 million armenians, but the estimated numbers do not tell the whole story which is about the unique tragedy of each human being who lost his or her life as a result of these brutal murders. i think it was stalin who cynically concluded that the death of one person is a tragedy but the death of millions is just statistics. that is why we have to clearly recognise today, without diplomatic subtlety and on behalf of the commission and the council, that murder is murder and that genocide is genocide. the only means to prevent such tragedies from happening is to integrate them as our common historic heritage. all of us need to face squarely these horrible truths. facing the full truth and agreeing a moral and political verdict is the only way to reach a genuine reconciliation. today is a moment to face the full truth of the armenian tragedy, but let us not forget that at the same time about 300 000 assyrians and half a million greeks were murdered during the final convulsions of the ottoman empire.
in writing.– all crimes against humanity need to be condemned. but armenia and turkey must get back on track with the normalisation of their relations, which would contribute to the overall security and stability of the south caucasus. for this to happen, societies of both countries must be encouraged to engage in talking to each other once again. we must address the civil societies, encourage cooperation between youth, businesses, media, people in all spheres of culture and others in both countries to engage in dialogue and cooperation. the armenia-turkey normalisation process initiative has been a good example for that. it must continue and the eu can contribute to this process.
madam president, quotas can sometimes create an impression or assumption that disabled people are unable to compete for jobs; but that is not the whole story. people with a mobility impairment suffer from lower employment rates than others, even including other people with disabilities, due to the lack of infrastructure and accessibility. that, at least, is the case in estonia, the country i happen to know the best. i would like to inform the commission of a problem that we have. the estonian government is planning to apply the same kind of labour market reform that has given rise to backlashes in hungary and in great britain. intending to spend eur 300 million of european cohesion money, they plan to create 500 assessors jobs in the department of employment. i would like to ask the commission, and ms georgieva personally, to keep a close eye on the activities of the estonian government and on that reform. i would even go so far as to suggest that those 500 european jobs should go exclusively to people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because i am convinced that a fair assessment of past crimes will contribute to turkey's democratic development. we must hold the memory of the suffering of all peoples, but we should not focus only on the regret of what has been, but on the future that unites us. it is good to see that relations between turkey and armenia are improving and this resolution recognises this. unfortunately, the opposite is happening in russia, where the crimes of the communist regime have not been critically assessed to date and where the undemocratic regime led by putin continues to commit crimes against other peoples.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, the vote on ecall is the last step to ensure that all new cars in europe are equipped with this alert system, triggered in the event of a crash. i am happy that the final text includes new provisions to ensure that the ecall system is not misused and that more safeguards are in place to protect the privacy of individuals. the privacy of individuals is an important aspect for my group. the aim of ecall is to save lives and it should be restricted to this purpose. we have to remember that seat belts have reduced the number of road deaths by around 40% although many at the time were sceptical about them. then came airbags, and now ecall is coming. it requires a change of habits, it means trusting new technology, but technology such as ecall can help improve road safety. for countries such as estonia, with areas with a lot of traffic, it might be useful when rescue services are called immediately – although i would mention, to the colleagues who have said this system is free, that it is never free: the investments are made by the companies. but it is anyway an important point that it can make sure that, in the event of an accident, rescue will be on its way.
madam president, i have been listening to the debate and i think one thing is missing. although i am a liberal and i tend to favour information sharing and people making their own choices, marketing – including that which targets young people – does sometimes offer misleading information. i have a problem with advertising that is targeted at the young. research suggests that alcohol can severely damage the brain if you start with it too early, and alcohol abuse by young people is an increasing problem in many european countries, including my own. it is therefore more than time for the eu to have a common approach and take action for the sake of the young generation.
in writing. the european parliament is debating today an alcohol strategy. what has caused this acceptance? for example, the social costs (other than medical costs) directly or indirectly linked to alcohol consumption in the european union in 2010 were €155.8 billion. according to various estimates, between 5 and 9 million children live in families that suffer from alcohol abuse. one in four deaths among young men aged 15 to 29 is due to alcohol consumption. it's the same reason every tenth young woman dies. alcohol abuse is linked to nearly 60 chronic diseases. besides damaging health, drinking can also break up families, promote violence, and so forth. unfortunately, the estonians are still the leaders of the european union. for example, poland consumes 10.2 liters of alcohol in absolute terms, finland 9.3, and the czech republic 11.6, while estonia consumes 12.3 liters per capita. as regards differences in consumption and wine culture, this is taken into account in the document, which stresses that measures to reduce alcohol consumption must be in line with national laws and take into account local characteristics. in the case of estonia, it must be admitted that the restrictions on alcohol advertising that have been in place so far have not reduced consumption, but the new strategy gives us the opportunity to combat excessive drinking more effectively.
mr president, recent developments in the mediterranean have made us pay more attention to eu immigration and refugee policies. however, i would like to raise concerns regarding attitudes that have been shared in public by some baltic politicians. they argue that the baltic states already have too many ʽown immigrantsʼ and cannot invite more, even from the territory of other member states. the term ʽown immigrantsʼ refers to soviet era settlers and their descendants, mostly russian speakers. this approach is inappropriate. the baltic states regained independence almost a quarter of a century ago. we can hardly compare baltic russian speakers who were born or have been living there for many decades with refugees or potential immigrants who are only considering emigrating to europe. these excuses deprive russian speakers of their right to european solidarity and also undermine the cohesion of the baltic societies. i regret that once again we are seeing malicious attempts to use the negative historical experience of the baltic states to get some sort of preferential treatment at eu level.
madam president, it is of course important that the eu leads the way in the fight against climate change, but we should also look at not harming our companies. initiatives to reduce co2 emissions in maritime transport need to aim at setting the standards globally, in particular to give a level playing field to our shipping companies as they do not compete locally, or even at european level, but at the international level. the sulphur provisions, for instance, in the baltic sea are increasing the costs of maritime transport. they represent real challenges to shipping companies. we have to protect our environment, but we also have to keep in mind that our companies compete on the global market and transport corridors can be changed for cheaper ones. i therefore hope that the commission will ensure that all european shipping companies, wherever they operate, can be competitive.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the vote is to give the member states the right to accede to the convention. i supported the bill because the convention helps to ensure the safety of crew members at sea by requiring certification that they are qualified and fit for work.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft because the change in the mff will allow the carry-over to 2015 of programmes not yet adopted but for which the 2014 allocation is intended. this will allow these programmes to move forward and support growth and job creation.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the positive outcome of the vote on ecall. the deployment of the ecall system for new cars will be vital in order to reduce the number of traffic fatalities, as it will allow emergency services to arrive as soon as possible. we must also ensure that citizens’ privacy is to be respected and see to it that the system will not give rise to improper use.
in writing. i supported the proposal as it should allow emergency services to reach the scene of an accident more quickly, thus saving lives and preventing more serious injuries from complications.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill because it aims to start the transition to biofuels, the use of which would help reduce greenhouse gases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the recommendation for the second reading on reducing the consumption of lightweight plastic carrier bags. in 2010 on average every eu citizen used 198 plastic bags of which 90% were lightweight carrier bags. each year roughly 100 billion plastic bags are being used by eu inhabitants. the primary task in drastically reducing the usage of plastic bags, especially light weight carrier bags is to protect the environment. but it would also result in saving of oil which is used for the production of plastic. completing the second reading will lead eu into the practical stage of implementation. personally i am in favour of the maximum goal to reduce the usage of plastic bags to maximum 40 per person per year by 2025.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal that eu member states should reduce the use of plastic bags, the most widespread and polluting plastic bags. reducing the use of plastic bags is one of the simplest ways in which each person can contribute to a cleaner environment by making small changes in their habits. often, plastic bags are used only once and are then discarded as scrap. in the wild, this plastic bag will persist for hundreds of years, placing a burden on the environment. it often takes a reason to change a habit, and it can come at a price.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill because its long-term objective is to reduce co2 and other greenhouse gases from maritime transport. to this end, a system of monitoring, reporting and verification in maritime transport is established.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to amend the regulation to strengthen the independence of the national statistical institutes. the reliability of the statistical office and its output requires that the people working there are professional, free of opinion and impartial. the purpose of the amendment is to ensure that.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the committee on fisheriesʼ report on the commission proposal for a regulation establishing a multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks (2014/0285 (cod)). i am relieved as the report showed its understanding of regional particularities. the baltic sea, and especially the gulf of riga, has a very particular ecosystem. this was recognised from the start in the provisions which guaranteed within the framework of the treaty of accession implementation of specific measures to safeguard resources in the gulf of riga – a sensitive eco-region of the baltic sea. the commissionʼs original proposal to open up the gulf to all fishing fleets would have seriously damaged and possibly even destroyed the fragile ecosystem with a consequent direct threat to the existing cod, herring and sprat stock.
in writing. ‒ the reform of the common fisheries policy in 2013 changed many provisions in the fisheries sector. among other things, the cfp regulation introduced a landing obligation for all catches. the obligation will be phased in between 2015 and 2019. i supported the regulation which takes the first steps in this direction and repeals many provisions which are incompatible with the cfp regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill because the treaty of accession of croatia to the eu provides for croatia's accession to international agreements concluded by the european union by means of a protocol.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because it aims to promote the education system. in particular, the aim is to adapt the education system to the needs of the labour market and to improve employability and competitiveness more generally.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as it deals with the greater development, funding, cross-border distribution and accessibility of european cinema. it also deals with the production and distribution of television series and the optimisation of the price of cinema tickets.
in writing. i supported the proposal, given that 40% of the european union's territory is covered by forests. forests and forestry are therefore an important source of improving the quality of life and also of creating jobs, especially in rural areas. at the same time, it is necessary to ensure that ecosystems are adequately protected.
member of the commission.– mr president, honourable members, first of all i would like to express my thanks for your comments. my very first conclusion is that finally we agree on the basic lines. i am, of course, looking forward to discussing this agenda thoroughly with you in the coming weeks. this house is a crucial partner in the implementation of this shared agenda. let me answer some of your remarks. first, on europol, mrs hohlmeier asked me a question. i agree that in certain areas it is necessary to reinforce human resources. we have more to do and, as i said at the beginning in my initial remarks, we are moving in that direction. ms sippel also made a point. i really understand what you say, but let me reassure you that the europol centre will operate within the existing mandate. the ongoing revision of the europol regulation will reinforce both the data protection framework and the oversight powers of parliament. this will also apply to the centre. as i said, this house has made clear that the utmost priority was to use the existing tools better – the existing instruments – both at legislative and operational level. this is exactly what we are doing with the europol centre. you also said something about the evaluation and better regulation of current instruments. the first vice-president, mr frans timmermans, sitting next to me, is the most appropriate person to further elaborate on this. evaluation has become a major element of all the commission’s policies. i assure you that the commission’s better regulation agenda now obliges us to make evaluations every time before we come forward with new proposals. i would also like to answer ms vergiat’s point. i want to assure you that we are working according to the work programme. actually we have accelerated it. this agenda is our agenda for the next five years. i am looking forward to working with you on this basis. mr devedjian, as i said, the issues of migration and border management will be further developed in the agenda on migration. as far as ms fajon’s points are concerned, social division and poverty – the root causes of extremism – are addressed and will be developed in cooperation with the competent colleagues. as i said, we will not only work on repressive measures – we will also focus on prevention. social cohesion policy, education, employment, justice – but also cooperation with key third countries – are crucial for the eu response to address the root causes of radicalisation and extremism. mr fleckenstein, you are right. i agree with you. we do need to bring together, in an effective manner, all internal and external dimensions of security. you know that we are already doing this. we work closely with federica mogherini, and you will see many targeted actions in this agenda. i mentioned some: legalisation and firearms are two examples. then there is the western balkans, turkey and the arc of countries which are facing instability right now. we travel around, and of course we exchange views and work together. let me conclude by telling you that european citizens expect us – as i said at the beginning – to trust each other, to share information effectively and to work together to coordinate concrete actions. so we must face all these threats together. when i say together, i mean among all institutions and all member states – with everybody. nowadays security matters, and what the citizens of europe demand and expect from us is to assure them that they can live in a well-protected europe. safety, in my view, is also one of the fundamental rights required in order to live in peace.
in writing.– the commission has come forward with a european security agenda (esa) that aims to create an eu area of internal security, based on a shared agenda between the member states, and their mutual cooperation. addressing the need for an inter-agency and cross-sectorial approach and bringing together internal and external dimensions of security is important. the agenda also points out a general eu weakness. whereas in principle it has a wide set of different regulations, directives and agreements in place, those are often not applied or implemented in a proper and efficient manner. i hope to see success here when it comes to security. speaking about terrorism, the esa is very much in line with the ppe proposals from january 2015 in aiming at better sharing among member states, tracking money transfers, strengthening the pnr and other systems. the esa also proposes a good set of anti—radicalisation measures that aim both to prevent and to rehabilitate. what is missing in my opinion are possible initiatives to counter cyber-terrorism. the need for enhanced external and internal cooperation is self-evident and i would like to see concrete measures proposed.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, let me firstly congratulate the rapporteur mr deprez for his very participative method in writing this report and his desire to limit the budget increase. like a brave captain, he has managed to sail this boat safely between scylla and charybdis, if you allow me to refer to mr welle and honourable vice president wieland with those ancient greek names. however, no rapporteur can make all political groups equally happy, hence three points on behalf of the green group. firstly, the konrad adenauer building in our opinion should be still financed by borrowing as we have the lowest interest rates in the history of common currency. secondly, in the opinion of the greens, the increase of a secretariat allowance still seems to be untimely because of the eu’s economic situation. thirdly, the increase in information technology expenditure and in cybersecurity this year will approach the eur 150 million. projects such as buying ipads for members are expensive. we already sponsor mr gates of microsoft, why now do the same with apple? by reverting more to open-source software, which is free after all, i am sure that the improvement in cybersecurity would come about. herr präsident! es ist sehr wichtig, es geht um geld! geben sie mir bitte noch 10 sekunden. last but not least, unlike many in this parliament, i personally feel a bigger security threat from underpaid parliamentary assistants than from an anonymous terrorist threat and would advocate using security money for the payment of qualified assistants.
in writing. compared to 2013, the number of refugees arriving in europe last year almost tripled to 278 000. this year alone, nearly two thousand refugees have drowned in the mediterranean. the european refugee pressure could be alleviated by better provision of refugee camps and by resolving conflicts in europe's neighbourhood. the european union must make a strong diplomatic contribution to alleviating the pressure on refugees by reaching agreements to reduce wars and conflicts in europe's neighbourhood and also in europe itself, in ukraine. improving the situation in syria would already make a significant contribution to reducing the flow of refugees, but this requires the european union and the entire international community to contribute to ending the syrian civil war and driving isil out of the region. in addition to syria, the situation in libya must be resolved in such a way that, instead of risking their lives in the mediterranean, they can wait for the end of the conflict in properly equipped refugee camps. the european union must also contribute to the establishment of well-equipped refugee camps near conflict zones as a matter of urgency. this requires agreement with the countries concerned on the location of such camps and the systematic provisioning of these camps. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-funded actions in the field of migration and asylum.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to give the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the commission shall implement the budget in cooperation with the member states under its own responsibility and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management.
in writing. ‒ the overwhelming support for the vote on the european social fund rule changes makes me hopeful. today we adopted plans to make 1 billion euros available in youth employment initiative funding in 2015. it is clear that we have to work together in the fight against youth unemployment, which is growing at an alarming rate. this is unacceptable, we must act now.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because youth unemployment needs to be tackled and the promotion of employment and education in europe needs to be taken very seriously. aid must be directed first and foremost to where it is most needed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because it would remove the import requirements for textile products, which are no longer relevant.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, which is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, which is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, which is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, which is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, which is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, which is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the court's special reports. the reports reflect a number of observations that the commission and the eeas have made significant efforts in central asia, which has a problematic geographical and political context. however, i believe that the eu's development strategies could be further targeted and adapted to the needs of the eu through appropriate management, in order to increase the visibility and impact of policy objectives.
in writing. ‒ i gave discharge to the european development fund for the financial year 2013 as it gives a true and fair view of the financial situation of the european development funds in all material respects. however, the error rate for the activities financed in 2013 has increased compared to the previous year and remains too high. i consider it important that all the activities of the european development fund should strictly follow the overall strategy and the priority areas based on political preferences and criteria of economic and financial efficiency.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft on the implementation of the european parliament's budget for 2013. the annual accounts shall give an overview of the financial situation of the european parliament in all material respects. it is also important to reduce red tape.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the council's activities should be transparent and the council should be fully accountable to the citizens of the eu for the use of the funds entrusted to it.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the european external action service is not yet a full-fledged eu diplomatic service due to limited resources. the commission and the member states could push for a stronger european external action service. including giving the foreign service a consular function.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the digital reporting project launched in 2013 to replace paper reports is particularly positive. more frequent use could be made of the possibilities of live webcasts.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the eesc should increase its visibility by strengthening the information and communication policy necessary for this purpose.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the under-representation of women in senior positions on the committee is significant and steps need to be taken to balance this situation.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. no significant errors were detected during the preparation of the 2013 annual activity report and no reservations are required in respect of ex ante controls.
in writing. - i supported the bill. the number of european union agencies has increased significantly over the last decade, from three in 2000 to 32 in 2013. these offices have a direct impact on the daily lives of eu citizens. agencies must be autonomous this applies in particular to regulatory agencies and those whose task is to collect information independently. the commission and the agencies need to improve their communication policies to ensure effective communication between the agencies and citizens to raise awareness of the results.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it is positive to note that measures have been taken to facilitate budget implementation, with a detailed overview of budget implementation progress being submitted to the steering committee for comment on a quarterly basis.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the centre has made a great effort to reduce administrative costs and has allegedly reached its maximum limit in this respect.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the centre has finally developed procedures to monitor and report on legality and regularity and is currently implementing an anti-fraud strategy.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the college has introduced a new procedure for the reallocation of budgetary resources, which has improved the budget structure and the control of budget implementation. however, the college's recruitment procedures are still not fully transparent.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the authority should further strengthen its policy of independence in order to avoid conflicts of interest.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. there is a need to improve the reliability of the annual accounts and the internal control and budgetary management.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it's important to maintain independence.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the centre shall make clear, both internally and externally, that it is financed from the eu budget (as a contribution from the union) and not from the commission or the community.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. i am positive that the agency has followed up on the previous year's comments and continues to pay attention to avoid unjustified transfers.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency shall continue to seek ways to reduce the rate of carry-overs to the next financial year and to avoid any unplanned carry-overs.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency must continue to pay particular attention to public opinion and commit itself to ensuring even greater openness and transparency.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the institute should more frequently present the results of its investigations to the relevant committees of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. in order to promote a single supervisory regime for the work of eiopa across the single market, it is essential to ensure better integration, efficiency and security of the union insurance and pension sectors, thereby contributing to economic recovery, job creation and growth in europe, as well as to preventing future crises in the financial sector. however, the limited resources of the institution mean that it must continue to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it by the union's co-legislators. the authority's mixed funding system is too inflexible, burdensome and may jeopardise the authority's independence.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. although the institute has made continuous efforts to carry out effective ex ante controls and to provide better guidance to independent audit firms, their quality is still insufficient and needs to be improved.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency plays a very important role in protecting and promoting human and animal health through the evaluation and monitoring of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. they could therefore further improve their conflict of interest management and resolution action plan to ensure independence and transparency in all areas of the agency's activities.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it is recommended that procurement procedures be further improved, in particular with regard to transparency and equal treatment of different tenderers.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the reliability of officially developed accounting procedures for intangible assets and the information provided on their costs must be further improved.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency has a very important role to play in ensuring the safety and interoperability of the european railway systems. its role and competences are currently under review in the context of the fourth railway package, and if the agency's competences are extended, it will also need to be allocated the resources necessary to fulfil its new and additional tasks in a comprehensive and effective manner.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. esma's role in promoting a single supervisory regime across the single market is crucial to ensure better integrated, more efficient and safer financial markets in the union, thus contributing to economic recovery and the creation of jobs and growth in europe and to preventing future crises in the financial sector.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the continued contribution of the fund to enhancing human capital development in the partner countries is to be commended. the results achieved in 2013 under the fund's medium-term perspective 2010-2013 demonstrate the successful implementation of the four-year plan.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. internal control mechanisms and budget management should be strengthened.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the agency's achievements in the period 2009-2013 are to be commended, in particular the promotion of interactive online tools for smes in the field of occupational safety and health management.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. eurofound has made a significant contribution to policy-making, its expertise has been used more frequently in key union policy documents and the scientific value of its research activities is increasingly recognised.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. budget planning and implementation should be improved.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. although europol has made progress over the years in the preparation, conduct and documentation of procurement procedures, the efficiency of those operations needs to be further improved, as the selection criteria have not always been sufficiently specific and the tenders realistic or in line with established professional requirements.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. it is positive that the level of appropriations carried over to 2014 is fully justified and in line with the implementation of the agency's annual work programme.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. although the multiannual nature of frontex operations and the increased risk of unforeseen events make it difficult to plan and implement the annual budget, it is always possible to improve budgetary control in order to reduce the rate of carry-over of appropriations relating to commitments.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. a full and appropriate financial assessment of the rights and obligations of the joint undertaking should be provided.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. a full and appropriate financial assessment of the rights and obligations of the joint undertaking should be provided, covering the period up to the date of the start of operations of the second fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the shortcomings in the procurement procedures for the core business need to be addressed as a matter of urgency.
in writing. ‒ i have given a discharge to the 2013 budget, confirming the reliability of the 2013 annual accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the joint undertaking will play a crucial role in the coordination and implementation of the sesar studies, which are the cornerstone of the single european sky. the so-called specific measures taken to avoid conflicts and corrective measures related to ex ante controls have been implemented, but the general principle of transparency should be applied more carefully.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft money market funds because they help finance the european economy and are an effective way of spreading credit risk. mmfs are a crucial link between demand and supply of short-term money. it is therefore important that financial crises do not make the mmf member vulnerable and thus increase risks to the financial system. in order to preserve the credibility and stability of the internal market, it is necessary to lay down rules on the functioning of mmfs, in particular with regard to the portfolio structure of mmfs, which are intended to make mmfs more resilient and to reduce the potential for negative spill-over effects.
in writing. - i supported the motion. in essence, this is harmonisation following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in addition, the regulation provides for annual quantitative restrictions on imports of textile products from belarus and north korea, as these are the only two countries not covered by bilateral agreements or other arrangements. it also allows for surveillance measures to be applied to other third countries where textile products originating there cause injury to the production of competing products in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft estimates of revenue and expenditure of the european parliament for 2016. the priority is to strengthen the work of the european parliament, in particular by enhancing its legislative work and its capacity to scrutinise the executive, and by enhancing the security and cybersecurity of parliament's buildings. to enable members to fulfil their obligations and to enhance the capacity of the european parliament to fulfil all its competences.
in writing. - i supported the bill. the idea behind the creation of the eppo is to fill current gaps, as national prosecutors are not always able to deal with cross-border offences. the eppo shall be responsible for the implementation of the budget of the union.
mr president, this month we witnessed another horrific attack by terrorists, this time in kenya. it was an attack against a university, attacking young people, future professionals, parents of tomorrow. but this was also an attack against christians, who were separated from the muslims, and this is one of the aims of the terrorist groups: to incite religious hatred. everyone who does not adhere to their extremist views is considered an enemy and an infidel and must be killed. christians and other non-believers – infidels – are under attack in their own homelands: pakistani terrorists plotting an attack against the vatican; muslim migrants throwing 12 christians overboard in the mediterranean; the beheading of christians in libya; killings in iraq, and so on. we have to increase our fight against terrorism. we have to engage more with the african union and african countries and support african capabilities for peacekeeping.
madam president, in garissa almost 150 innocent young people were murdered, most of them christians. they were separated from the others and killed. condemnation and expressions of solidarity are necessary, but clearly not enough. in garissa, by the way, there were ten times more innocent victims than in the paris charlie hebdo attack. this is not a question of numbers; the question is, are we reacting with the same character and determination? if so, we can all declare today: ʽi too am a christianʼ, as my colleague ms gardini has suggested. for the eu, the persecution of christians should be incorporated into our strategies with third countries. and as for other religions, i think we must urge the muslim leaders to follow the example of the king of jordan, who condemned all terrorist attacks as attacks against humanity and the islamic religion.
madam president, there has been a positive step forward this year: the cross-party agreement about eu integration, which was endorsed by the national parliament last february. but this example desperately needs to be followed in other areas to bring the country out of standstill. the core task for bosnia and herzegovina still remains constitutional reform and establishing control of corruption. with administration costs taking a 50% toll on state revenue, it is hard to assume that real progress in other areas could be achieved. the concerns are increasing separatism by serbians and activities by islamic militants. commemorating the srebrenica massacre 20 years ago should be an important opportunity for achieving national reconciliation, which is a key prerequisite for the building of a truly european society. we wish bosnia and herzegovina well.
in writing. ‒ it is high time we paid more attention to the general alcohol policy in europe. it is particularly important to step up efforts to reduce the consumption of alcohol by young people, for example by monitoring the effects of alcohol advertising on young people. we should also take the necessary measures in order to reduce road accidents related to drink driving.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. parliament is proposing to the commission to come forward with an alcohol strategy to answer the dramatic and worsening socio-economic developments that alcohol is causing. europe has about 12 million alcohol addicts, a quarter of road deaths are linked to alcohol, domestic violence is often linked to alcohol. europe’s economy loses eur 155.8 million euros a year due to alcohol-related problems. the resolution unites all political groups, a phenomenon not often seen in this house. as a result, parliament will send a strong message to the commission and member states to take this matter seriously. one of the arguing points remains labelling and the fear, especially in the southern european states, that labelling and other requirements could harm the image of traditional wine culture. in my view indicating the nutrition value and consistency on the bottle would make sense. a comprehensive alcohol strategy would contribute to saving lives and reducing costs. but most importantly it will provide better protection for children from alcohol-related harm.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which calls for a new and more effective eu alcohol strategy, with greater focus on prevention, especially among young people. it is a pleasure to note that the proposals in the resolution were supported by all the political groups in this parliament, as ensuring the good health of europeans and the sustainability of our society is a challenge we all share. in order to raise public awareness and prevent harm from alcohol, i strongly support the introduction of a requirement to provide information on the ingredients of beverages and nutrition information. it is also important to establish a uniform labelling system so that the necessary information is clearly understood by everyone across europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because i consider it important to prevent underage drinking. it is necessary to take into account the fact that alcohol is not available to young people and to inform them about the dangers of alcohol consumption. the resolution calls for a new eu alcohol strategy focusing on strengthening efforts to reduce alcohol consumption by young people and to reduce drunk driving and alcohol consumption during pregnancy.
in writing. ‒ almost 60 chronic diseases are linked to excessive alcohol consumption. besides damaging health, drinking can also break up families, promote violence, and so forth. in the case of estonia, it must be admitted that the restrictions on alcohol advertising that have been in place so far have not reduced consumption, but the new strategy gives us the opportunity to combat excessive drinking more effectively.
in writing. - i supported the bill. the situation of workers in bangladeshi factories has improved but needs to be monitored closely. the volunteers must be kept under constant surveillance, and for this purpose, inspectors must be trained and increased in number. europe has a moral obligation to help bangladesh in this area, given that many large manufacturers order their production from bangladeshi factories because of the cheap labour there. therefore, the bangladesh sustainability agreement and its progress are welcome and should be followed up to ensure that more producers join it.
in writing. - i supported the bill. the european union must make a strong diplomatic contribution to alleviating the pressure on refugees by reaching agreements to reduce wars and conflicts in europe's neighbourhood and also in europe itself, in ukraine. the eu has to contribute to ending the syrian civil war and driving isil out of the region. agreements must be reached as a matter of urgency to set up adequately equipped refugee camps in a safe area close to the conflict zones. in addition, a solution to the situation in libya and the strengthening of frontex are needed.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution which includes a number of important statements and recommendations. i also believe that the current asylum system in the eu is inadequate and the union needs a distribution of asylum seekers among all 28 member states. this distribution should be based on the principle of solidarity. no references to specific historical experience or to the number of residing immigrants can be used as an excuse for a preferential treatment at the eu level.
in writing. - i supported the motion. all terrorist attacks must be unequivocally condemned and the fight against terrorism must be stepped up. the european union must work closely with the african union and african countries to combat extremist groups and protect christians from attacks. we also need to support african peacekeeping capabilities and train the police and military in kenya and other african countries. we need to ensure that eu development and humanitarian aid reaches those in need and is used as effectively as possible. we also need to help fight corruption in africa.
in writing. i supported the proposal. the european union cannot simply stand by while isis destroys cultural heritage belonging to the common heritage of humanity and uses the proceeds from its sale to fund its terrorist activities. the eu must inter alia take steps to block the trade in illicitly extracted cultural goods from syria and iraq for as long as the countries remain in a state of war. in cooperation with unesco and the international criminal court, the category of crimes against humanity in international law should be supplemented to include the widespread and deliberate destruction of cultural heritage.
in writing. - i supported the motion. the maldives is increasingly authoritarian, the judiciary is flawed and not independent, opponents are forcibly suppressed, arrests are made, and the media and civil society are held in fear. the draft resolution calls on the maldives to address these shortcomings and to ensure respect for the rule of law and the un conventions to which the maldives is a party. the resolution also draws attention to the imprisonment of the former president and calls for him to be given the right to appeal and a fair trial.
in writing. - i supported the motion. albania has undertaken a number of reforms, many of them driven by the prospect of eu accession. however, problems with corruption, organised crime and the functioning of the judiciary remain. albania needs to do more to protect minority rights, media freedom and improve the situation of minors in the country. the desire of albania to improve relations with serbia is positive.
in writing. - i supported the motion. it is important to support the prospect of eu accession for bosnia and herzegovina. it's a motivation for reform. at the same time, the resolution also reflects the problems facing the country, which need to be addressed more and more. thus, the country's development is hampered by political and ethnic divisions, high levels of corruption, high unemployment, restrictions on freedom of expression, the lack of an independent judiciary, and many other problems. bosnia and herzegovina must take the fight against trafficking in human beings seriously and end racial segregation in schools. i consider it important to abolish the eu visa requirement for citizens of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. - i voted yes. the resolution takes note of the 2013 annual report of the european investment bank, which shows that the group's financial activity has increased by 37% and that the eib's capital was increased in 2013. however, there are concerns about the economic slowdown in the eu and the significant decline in public and private investment. the resolution calls for improving and facilitating access to money in member states and regions with high unemployment and a gdp per capita below the eu average. the eib is also invited, inter alia, to cooperate more closely with the banks of the member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal because it addresses a range of concerns related to food production and consumption in the world. with 870 million people suffering from malnutrition and hunger and, on the other hand, some 2,8 million people dying from health problems related to malnutrition, obesity and overweight, the milan world fair is a good opportunity to raise awareness in this field, to give new impetus to the debate on how to improve food production and distribution, reduce food waste and to promote existing measures and find good solutions to the problem of food insecurity, malnutrition and poor nutrition and to achieve the right balance between supply and consumption. the resolution calls, inter alia, for the link between climate change and food production and for the promotion of small-scale farming.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution. the situation in nigeria is terrible. the terrorist group boko haram has been increasing its attacks. they have kidnapped hundreds of women and children who cannot be found, they have tortured and killed men and old men, they have used children as young as ten years old to detonate bombs in marketplaces, and they have attacked schools, killing hundreds of people. boko haram must be stopped and this requires that the newly elected president of nigeria effectively engage in both the fight against terrorism and the fight against corruption. the fight against boko haram also requires effective cooperation with the countries bordering nigeria and the african union, and the european union must play its full part in this.
mr president, the kidnapping and illegal detention of ukrainian officer nadiya savchenko, despite widespread international protest, is really a cynical and inhuman gesture by the russian federation. it is clear that russia is violating the geneva convention and is not fulfilling its responsibilities under the minsk agreements. nadiya savchenko is an extreme case, but not the only one. this is quite typical of the present russian regime. let us recall that, similarly to nadiya savchenko’s case, russia is ignoring our protests against the kidnapping and detention of estonian security officer, eston kohver, and also many other cases. at the same time, russia is strengthening its military pressure on the eastern border of the european union, threatening and provoking the baltic and nordic countries. the russian leadership is obviously hoping that, overwhelmed by the tragedies in the mediterranean, europe will not take seriously the hybrid threat that is emerging on its eastern borders. let us prove together – not competing with each other but together – that this is not the case. russia must respect peace and security and human rights in order to be recognised as a respected member of the international community. the unconditional release of nadiya savchenko would be a step in this direction but hopefully there will also be other steps.
in writing.– as recent events have shown, russia’s backing of the assad regime had disastrous consequences in syria. analogically, france should not prop up russia’s current expansionist authoritarian regime by providing it with mistral class warships. it is important to note that although the mistral deal has been placed on hold due to the situation in ukraine, the contract has not yet been terminated. this means that potentially the option of delivering those warships to russia is still on the table, which is totally unacceptable, and can be seen as an insult towards the people who have died in, or been adversely affected by the conflict in ukraine. europe has to take a firm stance regarding this conflict, and the most elementary step would be to refrain from providing the aggressor with additional weapons.
mr president, i am happy that my group succeeded in putting this important issue on the agenda. the commission needs to act fast on this issue. as many colleagues have pointed out, the digital world moves very fast, so we do not have three years, or even one year, to wait for the rules in order to make them adapt to the digital age. i totally support the idea presented by my colleague ms charanzová about a simple solution to solve this issue. i also want to point out that while some argue that books on paper need the reduced rate because they wear out, it is not actually about the format. the reduced rate is needed to support the creation and writing of books, and also the reading of books. a book is a book in whatever format it is. therefore, a proposal to adapt vat rules to make them fit for the digital age could not come at a better moment.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, firstly, on behalf of the socialists and democrats i would like to congratulate vice—president ansip and his team for the work done, but it is only the beginning. it is not all about the digital single market; it is the digital society in europe that we are talking about today. the socialists and democrats support strongly this development because it is a way for growth. it is a way for new jobs, for quality jobs. the impact of the digital single market on the labour market is at the core of our interest and our concern, because we know very well that there are huge opportunities, but also huge risks. it is not only about consumption, it is about the digitalisation of the traditional industries and creating new services, which means there is also a need for creation of new skills. we know that there is a shortage of skilled labour in this area. at the same time, there are a lot of people who will lose their jobs and will need retraining. so we hope that the commission will bring us not only the legislation needed for new services and new technologies, but also ways to invest in education, in retraining and in the development of human resources. when we look at the digital scoreboard, then huge inequalities between regions are there; between different social groups, in terms of access as well as skills. so the socialists and democrats are very much concerned to ensure that these inequalities do not grow, but will be covered in our new developments. we call on the commission to make new efforts for new legislation, as well as for new research in this area. all of these impacts – the social impact and the impact on the labour market – need deep assessment so that we will be conscious and will not have unexpected negative risks. we hope that we will go all together; we saw last night and see today that the parliament is unanimous in supporting the development. we have to be optimistic and enthusiastic, but we also have to be knowledgeable and conscious of all the risks it brings.
mr president, i would like to congratulate commissioner ansip on the digital strategy. it clearly sets out our priorities, which are: building trust, fostering innovation and taking down barriers. digital is everywhere. it affects every part of our society and economy. there is, however, a lot to be done to overcome the fears associated with digital life. people trust each other more than ever, by sharing their cars, by sharing their flats, but also sharing content and accessing content online. but they also need to know that their communication is secure. therefore, i am very worried about the recent talk about creating a backdoor to the encrypted software. this will greatly undermine the trust in e—commerce, but also in the economy as a whole. so my question is this: how does that fit into the digital market strategy? this certainly needs to be answered. thank you commissioner. i look forward to cooperating with you on the implementation of the strategy.
in writing.– digital performance in the eu varies greatly, the best performers rank almost twice as high as at the lower end. the digital single market strategy and the accompanying legislation have to reduce existing barriers to a minimum. this cannot happen unless member states commit themselves to preferential investment in digital solutions – e-government, e-health, e-commerce, digital signatures. a supportive and customer-friendly legal and structural framework is needed at eu level as well as at national level both for citizens and businesses. to provide for cross-border e—european solutions, the commission has to come forward with ambitious legislative proposals. only 7 % of smes sell cross-border. lack of trust among sellers and buyers is based on prejudices, high delivery prices and complicated tax systems. providing a minimum commonality in rules would change the picture. online content – music, newspapers, books – must be made available for customers. ironically it is practically impossible to purchase any audiovisual products online from another eu member state. europeanising copyright and ending geo-blocking must happen. i call on the commission and the member states to tear down these protective walls and enable a genuine e-europe! every eu citizen should have the option to be paperless in doing business, sign documents online, use e-prescriptions valid everywhere and buy goods online regardless of location. this is what the eu is supposed to be!
in writing. - i did. this proposal is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i did. the draft resolution provides for the consent to be given to the accession of the eu to the convention. the convention provides for the protection of television, radio and internet services against equipment and activities which would allow access to services without payment. the eu is extending the scope of its regulation of the same nature across europe and is also sending a positive signal to other countries considering joining the convention.
in writing. ‒ the case of viktor uspaskich should be analysed in a wider context. there are good reasons to believe that this politician has repeatedly been harassed by the lithuanian authorities due to his political opinion and immigrant origin. against such a background i cannot vote in favour of the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because i think it is important for the eu to work more efficiently.
in writing. i supported it because it needs to be reviewed.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because i think it is important for the eu to work more efficiently.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because it needs to be reviewed.
in writing. ‒ indices directly or indirectly affect most european citizens. the use of indices has affected all financial instruments. many indices and benchmarks have become publicly available. their social benefits should therefore be enhanced, while the damage to the real economy and to society as a whole resulting from their possible mismanagement or manipulation should be more closely monitored. the reliability of benchmarks is crucial for the pricing of many financial instruments and for commercial and non-commercial contracts. the manipulation of the benchmark causes significant harm to investors in financial instruments whose value is determined by reference to the benchmark. where there are conflicts of interest and discretion in the determination of benchmarks, but those conflicts of interest and discretion are not properly managed and controlled, the benchmarks may be manipulated. while the application of administrative and criminal penalties for index manipulation is already provided for in the market abuse directive and regulation, it is necessary to regulate and prevent the risks of manipulation associated with the organisation and use of indices. for the protection of investors, benchmarks need to be robust, reliable, objective and subject to proper governance review.
in writing. - i did. the report provides an overview of the state of eu development aid. it considers it important, inter alia, that the eu and its member states immediately recommit to the target of 0.7% of gross national income for official development assistance, as well as to the involvement of civil society, increased financing for the fight against climate change and much more. given that 1.5 billion people still live in poverty and in poor health, education and living conditions, particularly in conflict-affected and fragile countries, this situation is unacceptable, as the world has sufficient resources to phase out this situation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. one of main objectives is to create an european e-health system. here the current gap between member states is biggest. in some mss e-health usage exceeds 80%; in others it is lower than 5%. an interoperable e-health system would not only ease the life of patients, but would also provide for comparison of different health care systems to effectively detect and eliminate shortcomings in the healthcare systems. resistance to antibiotics is a growing concern, caused in some cases by irresponsible and too widespread prescription of antibiotics and by their usage both in human and veterinarian medicine. prescribing antibiotics must be better justified and targeted. this applies especially to veterinarian medicine where systemic use of antibiotics has become part of normal economic development. whereas europe ranks very high on quality health care, still the complications caused by human factor are too high. hospitals and healthcare facilities must make it their core business to minimise these complications. this must mean not only properly training all medical staff, who directly and indirectly come into contact with patient, but also fully informing patients about needed pre—care and after—care hygiene.
in writing. - i did. given that human mortality due to antibiotic resistance is increasing every year and is becoming an increasing problem, there is a need to address this issue, including increasing opportunities for training doctors and improving public information on the use of medicines.
in writing. ‒ making healthcare safer increases the chances of a positive outcome, helps to prevent a large proportion of deaths and contributes to breakthroughs in the healthcare industry in europe.
in writing. - i did. it aims to provide a clear direction and framework for how the eu, in cooperation with member states and regions, can help smes to seize the opportunities of the transition to a green economy.
rapporteur.– madam president, let me first of all inform you and vice-president mogherini what a great pleasure it was to work with a connoisseur like mr kukan. everything we wanted to say is written in the report. please allow me to paint a small illustration about the things we are really talking about, knowing very well that security threats to europe are triangular. they come from the south, the east and the south-east. i will concentrate on the baltic sea. in recent months, russian military ships have been harassing and sabotaging the crews that are laying the nordbalt power cable between sweden and lithuania. this cable would enable the baltic states to reduce their dependence on russian energy, which clearly is not in russiaʼs interests, not only for financial reasons but because russia likes to wield energy as a political weapon. this is a prime example of how the absence of an effective csdp has negative spillover effects into other important european policy areas such as the energy union. russia is effectively sabotaging european energy security and the energy union by disrupting the creation of new energy interconnections. we are also in a situation in which france has two mistral-class warships that have been built but are now collecting dust as their delivery to russia would constitute a significant security threat to the eu. due to underfunding and lack of political will up to now, the european union has not yet been able to purchase these ships. this must now change. these ships would make an effective contribution to the csdp naval branch and could be used in a variety of ways. for instance, they could be of critical help in solving the crisis in the mediterranean, particularly close to the coast of libya, or they could patrol in the baltic sea and offer support to the crews laying the nordbalt cable. this does not mean that the ships would need to engage with the russian vessels currently harassing the crews. their mere presence would be enough. right now it is the mere absence of any european forces that allows russian warships and fighter planes to perform these demonstrations of force whenever they please. so actually what we have discovered is that the european union’s budget is an incredibly useful tool. if we create a budget line, the political goals will eventually be achieved, and that is why we suggest bringing a lot more order to the current financing of the common security and defence policy. let us be brave and forget about the dogmas. the european union’s common defence will be based on physical facts, one of them – most importantly – being the european common defence force. that is why i am one of the supporters of mr juncker’s new proposals. so let us create the budget line and start with the things which need to be done. otherwise our children will have little reason to be grateful to us.
madam president, it is very important that the high representative has really strong support from this parliament before the summit. the spirit of readiness for more solidarity and more decisive action is very important. i want to stress the other side. we are now facing, from the east – from russia – and from the south – from isis – forces which are using not only military, but also so-called soft policies. we know that they are addressing young people and minorities in countries. they are preparing them for provocations and participation. we need europe to have a stronger soft policy and a stronger information policy. in this situation we have to have our messages. we have to have our value-based understanding and our readiness to protect democracy and human rights. this has to be visible and understandable, not only among ourselves but also, more and more, outside. i very much hope that we will also have a common information policy in this context.
madam president, it was five years ago that robert gates observed that demilitarisation of europe, where large sections of the general public and political elites are unfavourable to military force, has changed from a blessing in the 20th century to an impediment to providing reliable security in the 21st century. we have entered a completely new, volatile international situation, and it is a matter of utmost urgency to adequately address the newest security challenges which will, in all likelihood, become more powerful and threatening. i am very much encouraged by your address, ms mogherini, and also the message from yesterday’s foreign affairs council. i feel that we have a strong common ground on mutual understanding and complementarity. we face the situation as it is and it gives hope to all of us. our message to the european council should be, first of all, to take practical steps – no more declarations. instead of abstaining from further cutting of defence expenditure, we must have a clear decision to increase. the european council should encourage – to put it mildly – recalcitrant member states to put more resources into defence. i am encouraged that the foreign affairs council has reached a conclusion that a sufficient level of expenditure is needed.
vice-president of the commission/high representative.– madam president, as i spent a lot of time at the opening of our debate, i will now just take the opportunity to comment on some of the very relevant issues that were raised and make more general remarks. firstly, on defence spending, i think those who raised this matter are quite right. there is not only the target, for those member states which belong to nato, of 2% of gdp, there is also the fact that 12 member states have already increased – or are currently planning to increase – defence spending. however, there is a need to focus not only on how much has been spent. i think many of you were right to raise this. the other real point is how we spend, if we manage to spend together in a coordinated way, and how we manage to spend the money we invest in defence better. this means looking at the output of our investments in defence. this is obviously very much a national debate, but there are components of this debate which are european – especially when we look at incentives on defence spending. there is work on the way, especially in view of the june council. many of you raised the issue of eu-nato cooperation, and some of you raised the need to strengthen the relations or the coordination. let me say that this is already being done in a very fruitful way. i see no risk, at this historical time, that increasing our own defence and security policy can in any way be to the detriment of nato. on the contrary, we have a complementarity on which we can work even more, especially when we tackle the hybrid threats. strategic communication was mentioned. there are a variety of tools in respect of which putting together different elements of our work can be extremely helpful for us both, keeping in mind the fact that we are completely different in nature – as i said several times – and that we obviously have different decision-making and agendas on many issues. but still, strong cooperation is not only a need for the future – it is also already a reality. i do not see the danger of duplication that someone mentioned. i see rather the need to fill the gaps we have in common. this is a problem the european union has, but also one that nato has. one timely question was raised by mr plenković about the possible csdp operation in ukraine. let me say that we discussed this at length inside the european union with the member states and obviously with the ukrainian authorities. we already have a civilian mission in ukraine, which is assisting with the reform of the security sector. we are ready to increase that kind of support which is, as i said, civilian work and a non-executive mission on security sector reform. we will also continue to channel our support for the full implementation of the minsk agreement through the osce. we commonly believe that this is the path we have to follow in full support of the efforts that, especially in the normandy format, are continuing to be made. let me close with some general remarks. many of you in this room – and i mention them in good faith and with no purely domestic audience purposes – referred to the need to move on, to go beyond mere declarations and take concrete steps. some, quite rightly, made reference to the fact that not all the instruments in the lisbon treaty are being used, and that the security situation calls for this. i think i was the first, on 6 october 2014, in my hearing in front of the committee on foreign affairs, to mention this. to me, one of the challenges of my mandate in these five years is to make full use of the instruments of the lisbon treaty. it requires hard work to create the political conditions for doing this. let me also say that when we in this room – or outside of this room – translate this, it rightly highlights that there are still gaps and still limits in our action. i am the first to recognise this. when we move this to the point of saying that europe does not have a policy, that europe is divided, that europe is not acting, that europe is not europe – as someone said in this room – i understand that this is a narrative we are used to. but sometimes this does not reflect reality. i said in my opening remarks that today we are talking about csdp, as yesterday the 28 – united in less than a month – took the decision to establish an operation. the two things, the narrative and the reality of these days, do not match. this does not mean that we have solved all the limits that we still have in our csdp – not at all – but to me the most concrete way of having a real csdp, a real common security and defence policy, is by specifically using the instruments, by specifically building the political conditions for making decisions in the council, and by having the operations and the missions we need, when we need them and in the way we need them. this is work that we have to do together, because europe is not an abstract entity existing somewhere. europe is what we make of it, all of us – the member states, the european parliament. each of you has a political family, a political party, a member state of nationality, and we have a common responsibility to build the political conditions for making full use of all the instruments we have, and to recognise – when we are taking steps that are going in that positive direction – to say that this is a step, take responsibility and move forward with the difficult work of realising what the european dream, but also need, is about. this means a lot of consistency. i will not go back over many of the details that i discussed in my opening remarks, especially about the last decisions we have taken, except for one point. pablo iglesias mentioned the need for all our missions and operations to fulfil the requirements of international law. for me, that is the basic starting point and is natural. for me, the reference to international law obviously means full respect for, and working fully in, the framework of the united nations. that is why we are developing such strong cooperation with the un and with the un system, and, particularly in this case, when we talk about the situation in the mediterranean, the work with the unhcr. this is the basis for our work, because these were the principles and the values on which europe was based. these are the principles and values that have to be at the basis of the european union missions and operations around the world.
rapporteur.– madam president, in the beginning i was speaking in the capacity of rapporteur, but now i would like to draw attention to some of the thoughts of my group, the green group. we have some problems. firstly, reducing horizon 2020 money does not seem such a good plan to us. secondly, we do not think it is a good idea to use the eu budget to compensate european defence companies who cannot export their production on account of sanctions and embargos against third countries. finally, there is the idea of value-added tax reductions or exemptions for defence capability cooperation. so you can see that we will have a very interesting vote tomorrow, and therefore i urge everyone in this chamber to look at the big picture, forget about dogmas and vested interests, and if possible, colleagues, please share the big picture proposed by a modest mep who comes from a very small country whose airspace is from time to time policed by the italian air force, and share the picture or vision that an eu common defence is a must and not a nuisance, and it will bring us closer together than we can ever imagine.
in writing. the russian aggression in eastern ukraine and the conflicts in syria and iraq, together with the emergence of the terrorist organisation isis, the crisis in libya and the threat of terrorism, pose a direct threat to the security of the european union. in particular, the fight against terrorism and organised crime, cyber security and migration require increased attention. the european union must encourage member states to build on nato's objective of spending at least 2% of gdp on defence. the downward trend in defence budgets in the eu member states must be reversed, as it no longer reflects the real security situation. the eu also needs to strengthen both civilian missions and be ready for military missions, including the use of eu battle groups, which has not been done so far. i support further steps to speed up the financing of civilian missions and to simplify the implementation procedure so that the eu has more flexibility in responding to crises in a timely manner. and of course, we must finally normalize cooperation between nato and the eu.
in writing.– similarly to numerous colleagues i would like to raise my deepest concerns regarding the deadlock in the council regarding the maternity leave directive. proposed measures, such as 20 weeks of paid maternity leave and 2 weeks of paternity leave cannot be underestimated considering the deep demographic crisis experienced by quite a few eu member states. furthermore, measures to protect women who give birth to a baby and return to work are of ultimate importance in the context of protection of the rights of families and working mothers. discrimination of parents raising minor children and discrimination due to family-related obligations are widespread in europe. the situation around the directive is especially notorious provided we are taking seriously our commitments of gender mainstreaming and gender equality. in a number of members states, maternity leave with full pay has already proved its efficiency and triggered an increase in births and facilitated equal treatment and working resocialisation of mothers (and in some countries also fathers).
in writing. - i did. the signing of the additional protocol is necessary to enable the republic of croatia to become a party to that agreement as a new member of the eu. in addition, some linguistic and technical changes will be introduced.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very important legislation that has now passed the last needed step to be adopted. corruption is of main concerns for the eu citizens and it costs eu economy about eur 120 billion annually. it serves as vital help for terrorists, criminal gangs and makes it much easier to bypass sanctions that have been applied to certain third states. control on money laundering has been notoriously weak and insufficiently coordinated. non-transparent money flows stemming from suspicious sources have found their way to the eu, where they benefit criminal groupings, shadow economy and terrorists. the legislation foresees public registers of beneficial ownership. member states have to ensure that these central registers, commercial registers or company registers within their territory contain information about the beneficial owners and will be made accessible by competent authorities. it has to be highlighted that the legislation is very firm on exceptions and did not surrender to the pressure by the banking, gambling and credit card industries which advocated for more exceptions and ambiguous rules.
in writing. - i did. money laundering and its links to terrorism and terrorist financing pose a threat to every society. methods of money laundering are constantly changing and new countermeasures need to be developed to ensure the security and integrity of the financial system.
in writing. - i did. the purpose of the bill is to prevent money laundering and to detect and prevent terrorist financing.
in writing. - i supported the bill. this is essentially a harmonisation of insolvency law in a situation where cross-border insolvency proceedings are a common occurrence. a single european framework is needed for the functioning of the eu's internal market and for dealing with economic crises.
in writing. - i supported the motion. it aims to break the links between conflict and the illegal extraction of minerals, and thus make it more difficult for armed groups operating in conflict areas to finance their activities through the extraction and sale of mineral resources.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal as the subject needs further analysis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i supported the european commission's proposal.
in writing. - i supported the motion. it is regrettable that the negotiations on the amendment of the maternity leave directive have reached a deadlock. we should get over it and move on.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. i am glad that epp, my political group, initiated the resolution in question. it addresses shortcomings in providing support to people with disabilities. one of the priorities is to better ensure that people with a disability will receive adequate state support without unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. i am concerned about the current state of affairs, especially as there is no proper data on the situation across europe. i call on the commission to address the issue of data gathering and sharing. first, we have to map the needs and challenges, and then adequate answers can be provided both on european and national level. the underlying principle should be enabling every person with disability to lead as independent a life as possible. this means encouraging society as a whole to accept these people as equals, companies to adapt to the special situation of disabled persons and to integrate them better into the job market. every human being deserves to live a dignified and independent life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution. i believe it is important to ensure equal opportunities and rights for people with disabilities to participate in society, but this requires that all stakeholders contribute to this. better implementation of the relevant legislation and enhanced interinstitutional dialogue are needed, but the involvement of third parties must also be increased.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution. the outbreak of xylella fastidiosa has already affected large areas in italy, is highly contagious to various plants and is therefore capable of causing significant damage with economic, environmental and social consequences. it is therefore necessary to develop a strategy for controlling the infestation, including preventive measures and effective control of imported plants.
the question of the blue card. a good colleague. for years, the european union has spoken of the need to cooperate with turkey on security and foreign policy, given all that is happening in the wider middle east. but there is no specific cooperation, unfortunately, as regards energy policy. what concrete steps do you think the european union should take in the near future to confirm its words, in order to actually coordinate and harmonize its foreign policy with turkey more closely, and also to increase the degree of interdependence in energy policy?
the question of the blue card. almost 10 years ago, macedonia was one of the western balkan countries moving most towards the european union and nato, but then it received a negative response every year to start accession talks with the european union, for example. clearly, the motivation in this country has been greatly reduced over the years, because the european union has not been willing to engage in meaningful talks. how do you assess how much the fact that macedonia has received over the years - whether from the european union or from nato - has actually influenced the situation that macedonia is tending to reach again today?
of course, the eastern partnership policy is a very important policy, but unfortunately i have to be critical of the summit starting tomorrow. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the eu is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. and it is very sad that the european union is not making a decision on visa-free travel for ukrainian citizens, when such a strong positive message is badly needed by ukrainian society in the current situation. it is also embarrassing that the european union cannot state unequivocally and clearly that ukraine has a clear european perspective. the fact that eight eu member states have still not ratified the association and free trade agreements with ukraine in the course of the year is another sign that some eu member states are losing enthusiasm for supporting ukraine. i very much hope that in the coming weeks, after the summit, the european union will be able to take stock of these decisions and make decisions.
madam president, the riga summit should not become a summit of little political commitment, as some forecast. it is said that some member states are reluctant to commit themselves to any new agreements or promises. some others see it as a last chance to save the partnership, but what we need is the opposite. the eu must demonstrate its unwavering political commitment toward our eastern neighbours on the very difficult road towards democracy. i very much like the declaration by the latvian presidency that we need genuine partnership, and i hope that the latvian presidency could implement it in riga’s decisions also. i am one of the signatories of meps’ letters to the riga summit, so let me repeat the appeal: for next year, a visa-free regime for two countries, ukraine and georgia, and a clear european perspective for the three countries which are clearly willing to have this perspective. our duty is also to guarantee that these countries could freely choose their paths, and the eu approach should be better tailored to each participant. but our message today should be that we cannot let these countries down by loosening our commitment. these nations are welcome to the european family – and better sooner than later.
madam president, i would like to raise some concerns regarding the measurement of the efficiency of the youth guarantee in some member states. for impact assessment we need certain criteria and the youth unemployment rate is only one of them. in eastern and southern europe, we can observe rapid changes to young populations due to emigration. for example, in estonia the youth unemployment rate went down from about 17% at the beginning to about 12 % at the end of 2014: what a success story! but if unemployment rates fall basically due to a youth exodus, these figures cannot prove the efficiency of the program. the commission shall also consider the unemployment rates of key social groups. in my country, the annual unemployment rate for ethnic estonians is 1.6 times lower than for russian speakers. russian speakers made up 27% in this age group, but their unemployment rate was almost 21%. this aggregated statistical data is crucial for the adequate analysis of any measures, including the youth guarantee.
madam president, the vice-president for energy union has said several times that europe needs functioning energy markets and acer to oversee the markets. so that agency needs adequate resources to deliver on its tasks. but it not only lacks adequate resources right now, it also lacks the right toolbox to deliver its tasks because it struggles to get information from the member states regarding projects that are ongoing. i think, therefore, that in addition to adequate resources we also need the right toolbox and mandatory information-sharing so that acer actually knows what is going on in the energy markets. this is not only about fighting protectionism in the member states, it is also about delivering an energy market that really functions and gives people lower prices. it is also about energy security, considering the situation in russia.
author.– mr president, the human rights situation in swaziland has been problematic for a long time, to put it mildly; but recently, respect for the rule of law has dramatically deteriorated. today our concern extends to the lawyer thulani maseko, who has been defending the interests of the local trade union congress, and also to the journalist bheki makhubu, who is editor of the last independent newspaper in the country. both have been sentenced for a ridiculous charge – contempt of court. therefore, our message should be that independence of the judiciary must be fully respected in all circumstances. we ask the swaziland authorities to unconditionally release these two persons, as well as all others who have been sentenced for using freedom of expression. we call on swaziland to unconditionally respect their commitment to the rule of law and human rights under the cotonou agreement, which includes freedom of expression. the granting of trade preferences to swaziland must be directly linked to respect for the rule of law and human rights by the country’s government. there have been hopeful signs that, finally, the local trade union congress has been registered once again, but this is only the first step. we expect that swaziland will continue in the same direction.
in writing. ‒ europe has to assume its responsibilities in the field of conflict prevention and crisis management. unfortunately, right now the csdp exists mostly in theory. we need to back up these words on paper by real world physical capabilities. the csdp has suffered chronic underfinancing, which is why it is not surprising that it has not been able to go anywhere near reaching its full potential. real forces are needed to give the csdp some meaning and credibility as a policy instrument. even if the purpose is to refrain from engaging in military conflicts, which it should be, since diplomatic solutions are always preferable, the csdp will never be taken seriously if there are no forces to back it up. since the csdp is intended to act as a deterrent (to prevent outbreaks of armed conflict) it needs physical military capabilities by definition. the two mistral class warships that france cannot deliver to russia due to the latter’s involvement in the war in ukraine should be bought by the eu in the framework of the csdp. these ships would contribute to increasing csdp capabilities in a variety of ways, for example in the mediterranean, and we would avoid delivering additional weapons to a potential aggressor.
the g7 is expected to address important security issues at its meeting. so, the outcome of a g7 meeting should be a clear message to russia that continued aggression in ukraine will lead to a different kind of situation and to more extensive restrictions and sanctions than before. there is, of course, no reason to talk about easing sanctions until the reasons for them have been removed. the g7 is a group of countries that share common values, and as long as russia doesn't share those values, it can't have a path back to the g7. it is also important to address free trade agreements, as the aim could be to have existing free trade agreements between all g7 countries, and it is particularly important now to move forward with free trade between the european union and the us. energy security is a subject that would require new solutions, and of course the situation in africa and the wider middle east, to put an end to the refugee crisis and the desperate situation of people.
in writing.– this is the 50th, and hopefully the last, time that i will address you about the mistral warships that france initially intended to sell to russia. i started expressing my deep concern about this deal in february 2010, when it was first announced. it took more than five years, and a serious armed conflict, for most people to come around, and understand our concerns. it is unfortunate that our allies had to learn about the security threat posed by russia in such a shocking way, but at least we can take some slight consolation from the fact that the suffering of the innocent people affected was not totally in vain. during the past five years i have felt a sense of duty constantly to keep reminding parliament about these concerns – even, occasionally, when it had to be done under points of the agenda unrelated to this issue. therefore, i welcome with great joy the fact that france seems definitely to have cancelled the delivery of these additional weapons to russia. i also understand france’s problem of having two expensive ships collecting dust, which is why i believe that the eu should acquire the vessels in the framework of the common security and defence policy.
mr president, estonia implemented the school milk programme years ago and we are very happy that now it will be combined with fruit and vegetables. the problem for us, as for others who have this historical tradition, is that now we will be punished and after the transition period support for the milk programme will drop. i am really sorry about that. i hope that maybe we can still retain this historical tradition.
the question of the blue card. thank you for reminding me of my recent history, but in this serious matter, i have a question: it is indisputable that forced marriage of girls is a serious violation of human rights. according to the world health organization, the suicide rate among teenage girls in the world today is already higher than the rate of death among women during childbirth, or it has skyrocketed, and one reason is the same number of child marriages. the european union makes a wide variety of agreements with countries where shellfish farming is a problem every year, and provides relatively generous development aid. how much do you think the european union should take account of the situation of human rights, for example, in the provision of development aid, and in particular of the situation of forced marriage of girls in the country receiving development aid, and how much should these issues be linked?
in writing. millions of girls are forced to marry at an early age or to someone they did not choose. girls who should be playing, going to school, and growing as children in order to live a full life in the future, instead endure violence and brutality. most of them are not allowed to continue their education in school and their mortality is high. in 2014, there were 700 million children under the age of 18 who were married. a who report released late last year shows that teenage girl suicide has surpassed the death rate from childbirth, which was previously considered the leading cause of death among teenage girls worldwide. the eu must combat such violations of children's rights and violence against women and call on other countries to do the same. this requires raising awareness through various campaigns in cooperation with third countries and regional organisations, supporting legislation and policies aimed at ending the practice of child marriage and including the issue in trade, cooperation and association agreements with third countries.
mr president, in october 2013 the indian police detained 25 anti-piracy security guards, among them estonians and uk and ukrainian citizens. in july 2014 the madras high court decided to drop the charges against the security guards, a decision which has been appealed by the indian police. the men have not been allowed to leave india during the proceedings, despite the fact that they were acquitted. some of them have serious health problems, and their economic situation is disastrous. the supreme court considered the case in april this year but once again has delayed a decision – until july, since the court is on summer vacation. it is a matter of extreme concern that the men have been held in india for such a long time, especially since the charges were dropped against them almost a year ago, and it is unacceptable that the indian courts are stalling with a decision beyond reasonable limits. this issue must be addressed at all levels in eu meetings with india until it is resolved and the estonian and uk citizens are back home.
mr president, i am very sorry for wasting our time in explaining my vote, but i promised my daughter i would explain why i voted against chocolate milk at schools. i shall now switch to estonian. ma sain hääletada hr tarabella raporti poolt lõpuks ometi rahuliku südamega, sest et varem, kui prantsusmaa valitsus oli lubanud müüa mistral-tüüpi rünnakuplatvorme venemaale, kes ründab naabreid ja võtab koolilastelt ära õunad, banaanid ja piimaklaasi, harva jättes ka need lapsed ellu, ei olnud mul kindlust, et selle raporti poolt on mõtet hääletada. aga täna, kui me teame, et venemaa ja prantsusmaa on saanud sellest probleemist üle, oli mul hea meel hääletada selle poolt, ja võib-olla, kui mu lapsed käituvad hästi, luban ma neile kodus ka natuke šokolaadipiima.
in writing. ‒ i supported the school feeding programme bill. the criteria for budget allocation are important for estonia in this respect, in particular the use of the so-called historical criterion for the milk budget, which the european commission has proposed in its proposal. the commission proposes to allocate the eu milk budget (eur 80 million) between member states according to the number of children aged 6-10 (similar to the one currently in force for fruit and vegetables) and to add a so-called historical budgetary use criterion. the commission aims not to reduce the budget of member states that have actively used the eu aid for the school milk scheme. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to provide a guarantee for the milk sector, but to provide a guarantee for the milk sector.
mr president, lack of substantial equality in various areas of social life is still a problem for women all over europe. in the labour market they still earn less than men on average. in most places they are under-represented at the top of the career ladder and over-represented in the less prestigious sectors of the economy. a woman’s potential is limited by the unequal distribution of household labour. however, i would like to single out the widespread problem of domestic violence. a major problem for the investigation of domestic violence cases is the reluctance of victims to report such cases to the authorities. often the reluctance to report is linked to a lack of faith in the ability of law enforcement to deal with these issues. a lack of shelters, and financial dependence on offenders, is a further problem. the persistence of stereotypes concerning the roles and responsibilities of women and men in the family and in society is another challenge. in some countries, obstacles to dealing with cases of domestic violence may be related to the fact that they are cases for private prosecution. many member states have no specific criminal provisions on domestic violence and marital rape, and rape is prosecuted within the framework of a private prosecution. abolishing private prosecution in cases of domestic violence and rape may contribute to better protection of victims of crime. estonia, my own country, is a good example in this context. we need a comprehensive fight against domestic violence at eu level. therefore, i would stress the importance of the recommendation to designate a european year for combating violence against women and girls.
mr president, i am deeply concerned about practices in relation to the application of the schengen rules by the baltic states. during the last seven months, a dozen russian scholars, experts and people from the art world have been denied entry to, or expelled from, the baltic states. among them, for instance, was valery tishkov, a member of the russian academy of sciences. his case is very curious. while in russia, he has previously been harassed for his political and academic views. baltic intolerance towards criticism by experts and scholars sends a very bad signal to the kremlin. bad practices on the part of the baltic states may shed some light on the reasons behind the so-called russian blacklist. national authorities are given wide discretion to decide on entry to their territory and to the territory of the schengen zone. i believe, however, that we need more coherent supranational control over the application of the schengen rules. such application should not compromise the democratic image of the union.
mr president, from my personal point of view, the landsbergis report – especially its initial version – is unfortunately good proof of the aphorism that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. we cannot avoid bias if rapporteurs are feeling strong emotions related to the subject of the report. we all know the tragic history of eastern europe. politicians from this region may be an important source of information about russia; however, it is a big challenge to all of us to write balanced reports on russia and to consider various points of view in a constructive way. regrettably, mr landsbergis is no exception. we always have to consider the atmosphere in the rapporteur’s member state. i fully agree with the approach of my colleague paavo väyrynen, but this report is unfortunately not that balanced. colleagues, there is still a glimmer of hope for normalising relations with russia, but this report is hardly a step in the right direction. eu-russia relations are much more important than our political ambitions. therefore, despite the fact that i partly agree with the statements of the paper, i cannot support even this improved version. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question.– i have a question to ms toom, because i know that she is from a party which has an agreement with the russian leading party. you said that there is hope that there will be an improvement. can you elaborate? maybe you have a better idea of what is going on in russia. where is the hope? where are the changes in russia?
blue-card answer. – yes, it is true that we have a real agreement, just like 36 other european parties, including the party of mr jean-claude juncker. but i am a member of the european parliament, not of the russian duma. i feel that if we have ambitions to have some kind of dialogue with russia, then we have to stay more constructive and free of emotions.
mr president, i am happy that this report mentions the growing issue of russian propaganda, not only in russia itself but also in neighbouring countries such as the baltic states and ukraine. an open and free internet is becoming one of the building blocks of our democracy, but it is also a powerful tool in the hands of authoritarian regimes. what is happening in russia now is an information war, as all channels are used to spread lies and conspiracy theories. we cannot, however, fight russian propaganda with eu or us propaganda, although we need to make all possible efforts to guarantee that russians get uncensored information about what is going on in their country and in the world. we should not underestimate the power of words when those words are lies. i therefore call on the commission and on the member states to step up their efforts on this front. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– what would make a practical difference is to guarantee that the russians get uncensored information so that they have access to decide for themselves what is going on in the world and in their country. as long as the information is censored or directed in the direction that the regime wants it to go, then it is not a free decision.
mr president, i appreciate that the landsbergis report is based on the quality of truth and realism – based upon, i would say, positive conditionality. the message to the european council is very clear. sanctions have to be continued – and even strengthened without any hesitation – because they have made a significant difference already. if not, mr putin would have already attacked the next targets, possibly the baltic states. there is no dilemma about whether to have dialogue or not; it is about the substance of dialogue. in 1938 hitler dismembered czechoslovakia as a result of dialogue with some democratic states, and a big war followed. so, in the same fashion, mr lavrov called in munich this year for dialogue. the ukranian crisis, he said, is an instrument to force the west to negotiate a new security system. so our message is: it is not about dialogue, it is that mr putin has to change or be changed.
in writing. there is a great potential for normalisation in eu-russia relations if russia would accept the right of its neighbours to determine their own future and contribute in practice to the resolution of frozen conflicts. it's a prerequisite that russia no longer sees the west and europe as an enemy and a security threat. instead of spending large resources on dealing with the threat from the west, it would be wise for russia to focus on the real security threats, which certainly do not come from the west but rather from the south, and these threats are common to europe and russia. the eu-russia normalisation therefore requires that russia starts to see the world as it is, rather than in the 20th century pattern of confrontation. very disturbing is the russian behavior in terms of specifically taking people's freedom. estonian police officer eston kohver's life has been stolen by russia for nine months. he's still in prison in russia, far from his loved ones, including the little ones. he must be released. because until russia values humanity, it is also very difficult to expect a substantial change in eu-russia relations.
in writing.– i fully support extending the european union’s sanctions towards russia. furthermore, i applaud mr schulz’s decision to restrict the russian ambassador’s free access to the european parliament. this sends exactly the right signal to russia which is exercising byzantine and soviet diplomacy even to this day. i would like to remind to some of my colleagues in the european parliament who have expressed their concern about this decision that this is not a full access ban; it simply removes the additional privilege of unfettered access. moreover, the estonian police officer eston kohver who was abducted by force from estonian territory nine months ago is still illegally detained in a russian prison. the european union cannot remain idle regarding this clear violation of international law and human rights. ceterum censeo, eston kohver has to be released immediately and returned to estonia.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposals to create a reserve to provide additional support in the event of major crises affecting agricultural production or marketing, reducing direct payments which could create unfair conditions of competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report given the amount of work that still needs to be done to achieve gender equality between women and men. i did not however support proposals including a gender equality criteria in public procurements and in eu-funded research projects as i believe this could have a negative effect on small companies or small research teams. it is indeed likely that they would fail to meet this criteria, unlike big universities or companies that have more means and resources to meet such targets.
in writing. - i supported the motion. it is clear that progress towards effective gender equality is slow, both in the eu and elsewhere. the eu must develop effective strategies to ensure gender equality in order to eliminate all forms of discrimination against men and women. the proposal covers the fight against violence against women, the gender pay gap, the participation of women in leadership positions, parental leave, healthcare, access to fertility treatment and the prevention of human trafficking. all these are issues that need to be addressed seriously to help women, mothers and daughters, who are often disadvantaged. i also think it is very important that the eu seriously address this issue in its relations with third countries. the issue of women's rights must therefore be treated as a human right and always included in neighbourhood policy, development cooperation and the establishment of trade and diplomatic relations.
in writing. ‒ in europe there is still much work to be done to ensure substantial equality of women and men. in the labour market, women still earn less than men on average. they are normally underrepresented at the top of the career ladder and are overrepresented in the so-called less prestigious sectors of economy. in many member states this imbalance in the labour market can be reproduced through education systems. furthermore, women’s potential may be limited by unfair distribution of household labour. traditionalist attitudes still affect the status of women in europe. domestic violence is another specific and urgent challenge for eu policies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft strategy on the protection and enforcement of intellectual property rights in third countries. the eu's competitiveness is increasingly based on creativity and innovation, and protecting them is crucial for europe's competitiveness. the commercial nature of many ipr infringements and the increasing involvement of organised crime in these infringements have become a major problem, requiring the commission to draw up a concrete plan and to indicate where and how much resources are allocated.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the fact is that 39% of eu gdp (some eur 4.7 trillion annually) and approximately 26% of all employment (56 million jobs) is generated in the intellectual property rights (ipr)-intensive sectors. the commission’s proposed action plan, which is backed by the report, includes new enforcement tools and a ‘follow-the-money’ approach to deprive commercial-scale infringers of revenue flows. awareness raising is needed, but the first tasks concern the integrity of supply chains, the reduction of profits in the online environment, assisting smes, chargeback systems, better cooperation between national authorities, and screening public procurement for ipr-infringing products. smes, especially, need particular support in fighting against counterfeiting. bearing in mind the eu digital strategy, the union’s copyright legislation also needs to be updated. i hope the commission will come up with adequate new legislation, at the latest by next summer, accompanied by other necessary measures to turn digital strategy into digital action.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft european union action plan on the legal protection of intellectual property. the number of infringements of intellectual property rights in the eu is high and the scale and financial value of these infringements are of concern. it is a barrier to development, job creation, innovation and creativity. the main objective of the action plan should be to ensure effective, evidence-based protection of intellectual property rights, which is of central importance in fostering innovation, creativity, competitiveness, economic growth and cultural diversity.
madam president, one of the main reasons we have failed to build the internal energy market so far and ensure energy security is the national protectionism still practised by many member states. i therefore welcome the fact that this report sees the energy security issue as a european issue rather than a national one. i also strongly welcome the memorandum of understanding signed yesterday between the commission and the member states to strengthen security of supply through further market integration. a functioning internal market and the free flow of energy across borders is the key to ensuring security of supply. more work needs to be done, however, and i hope that the commission will build on the strong will shown by the member states yesterday and translate this will into action to build energy security and the energy union.
madam president, europe has had to endure many experiences, with one example being russia cutting off gas to its neighbouring countries. we see once again that europe is very vulnerable. i cannot stress this enough: we need to diversify our energy sources and make sure we prioritise energy security and supply. european gas markets need to be developed, and electricity grids in remote places in europe, like the baltics, need to be connected to the rest of europe. all eu member states must be interconnected. i am sure that the strategy on lng terminals would enhance the diversification of energy resources. the internal energy market, including the implementation of infrastructure projects and the harmonisation of market regulations, must be a priority. we need to agree on the free trade agreement with the united states, and we should also concentrate on cooperation with turkey and central asia on new energy rules. it is also important that the eu, in its energy and foreign policy, speaks and acts with one voice, and that the eu is able to resist pressure from third states if energy is used as a political tool.
in writing. - i supported the bill. the decision to conclude the doha amendment, which sets a second commitment period for greenhouse gas emissions until 2020, sends a clear message that the eu is making efforts to tackle climate change. iceland, which is part of the eu emissions trading system, is also joining the change. the eu must call on other major polluting countries to sign a binding international agreement establishing a level playing field so that the eu is not left alone in meeting its climate commitments.
in writing. - i did. iceland is a party listed in annex i to the kyoto protocol that has achieved its individual target for the first commitment period. the doha amendments established the second commitment period of the kyoto protocol, for which iceland has expressed its willingness to jointly fulfil commitments with the eu, irrespective of its possible accession or non-accession to the eu.
in writing. - i did. these are the adjustments to be made to that convention and protocol by reason of the accession of croatia.
in writing. - i did. these are adjustments to the convention following the accession of croatia.
in writing. - i supported the motion. the aim of the document is to map the state of eu-russia relations and to address current issues. there is a great potential for normalization in eu-russia relations if russia would accept the right of its neighbours to determine their own future and actually contribute to the resolution of frozen conflicts. it's a prerequisite that russia no longer sees the west and europe as an enemy and a security threat. russia's behaviour in terms of the taking of specific people's liberty is very disturbing, including the case of estonian police officer eston kohver. until russia values humanity, it is also very difficult to expect a fundamental change in eu-russia relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. one of the eu’s biggest problems is its energy dependence on third countries. this often affects eu decisions, making them milder than need be. russia has in the past literally blackmailed the eu with energy and seems set to continue this practice. this report set out a range of policy lines and measures to increase eu independence from external energy. in light of growing instability in several of the countries that supply the eu with gas and oil, we cannot delay finding realistic alternatives. i regret that the outcome of the vote was negative. i do not believe that the ep is against diversifying energy sources or against calling for an eu energy security strategy, but unfortunately with this vote the ep got trapped along rigid lines. nevertheless, i hope that the commission will take the question of energy security very seriously and will come up with real policy solutions soon. and when they do so, i hope that the ep will engage in a more constructive debate than we have seen today.
in writing. - i supported the motion. the european union should diversify its energy sources, create security of gas supply, establish energy links between eu countries and speak and act in unison in its policies.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the 2014 report of the supervisory committee of the european anti-fraud office. olaf is a part of the european commission with a special independent status for the conduct of anti-fraud investigations. unfortunately, this has not been fully addressed. more effective discussions are needed, respecting the principle of transparency and full disclosure to the european parliament and eu citizens. the commission should facilitate the discussions between olaf and the supervisory committee in this respect.
in writing. - i supported the resolution. the death penalty is a violation of fundamental human rights. the european union is also founded on values such as respect for human dignity, which includes the abolition of the death penalty. hungary has undertaken to refrain from imposing the death penalty when it joined the eu. this obligation must be respected. hungary could also stop inciting hostility on the issue of migration.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the tone of the report was originally too positive, but with amendments and the vote in the plenary we have achieved a more realistic approach. turkey is a big european neighbour – for years a candidate country, and one that has reformed significantly. it also plays a crucial role in fighting against islamic state and other terrorist groupings currently active in syria and iraq. nevertheless, we cannot look away in relation to turkey’s poor performance when it comes to human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the arbitrary detention, over many years, of journalists critical of the government makes turkey a leader among countries with the highest number of imprisoned journalists. the most recent case involved the unfounded arrests of journalists who revealed major corruption among high authorities. i call on the turkish authorities to fulfil the nation’s commitments under the council of europe, and the eu accession process, to fully respect human rights and to guarantee freedom of media, thought, belief and gathering. i call on them especially to enable christians to use their places of worship and practice their religion freely and fully with no discrimination, hate speech or intolerance.
in writing. - i did. it is important that the european union maintains an eu perspective for turkey and that both turkey and the eu itself work to promote this. the eu should move towards visa-free travel for turkey. it is important that turkey continues to implement reforms, including in the areas of the judiciary, the constitution and the guarantee of fundamental rights. ensure freedom of the press, allow peaceful demonstrations and public assemblies, and address seriously the human rights violations in gezi park. turkey has an important role to play in the world it is a member of nato and has a central role in resolving events in many of its neighbours.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, if you allow me i will speak in estonian, because it seems to be the only language that the master of the kremlin understands. esiteks tahaksin tänada hr pașcut selle eest, et temaga oli tõesti tore koos töötada. mees nimetab asju õigete nimedega – krimm on annekteeritud, mitte kuskil meie ei alustanud krimmi annekteerimist, nagu siin hiljuti fraktsiooni gue/ngl kolleeg üritas väita. roheliste fraktsiooni nimel kõneledes tahaksin siiski osutada paarile probleemile, mis meil selle raportiga on olnud. esimene probleem on see, et paljud meie liikmed arvavad, et liiga tugev keelekasutus, millele ei järgne jõukasutust, võib olla ebaproduktiivne ja pigem anda putinile kremlis jälle lõkkematerjali, et väita, et just nato ründab teda nüüd musta mere kaudu. teine probleem on see, et meie fraktsioon arvab, et selle parlamendi julgeolekukomisjon ei ole tegelikult nato parlamentaarne assamblee, ja kui raport liiga tugevalt rõhutab nato rolli musta mere strateegilise tasakaalu taastamisel, siis me oleme võib-olla eksiteel. meie parlamendi ülesanne on võib-olla senisest palju tugevamalt nõuda ja toetada seda, et nato kolmanda sambana lisaks türgile ja usale ning kanadale tekiksid euroopa liidu relvajõud, mis siis ka reaalselt suudaks meie kõva retoorikat tagada julgeolekusituatsioonide lahendamisel. lõpetuseks lisan veel kord, et kui hr pașcu kodumaa peaks olema hädas, siis meie mehed tulevad alati appi.
mr president, according to the most recent forecasts, the ukrainian economy is set to decline by 9% this year. this negative outlook is the direct result of the continued fighting in the east and the military situation in the black sea region. each day of the conflict costs ukraine over eur 5 million, and therefore the achievement of peace in the east is not only vital for security and humanitarian reasons, but also from the economic perspective. in the light of this, we must reiterate that the eu condemns the annexation of crimea and we must continue to exert pressure on russia to respect the minsk peace agreement. remaining united in our response is imperative to the immediate achievement of peace in the region.
mr president, the new russian military doctrine, as of the end of last year, officially considers that nato and the eu constitute russia’s main security threat. this is a clear indication that russia considers us not as partners but as adversaries to be weakened, split and compromised. following the annexation of crimea, russia is creating an offensive strike force in the region. in fact, crimea is becoming a kaliningrad of the south, with all the consequences of that. the rapid enhancement of offensive russian military potential is a real threat and security risk for all the neighbouring countries, not just ukraine. what is happening, by the way, is not a surprise. after the russian invasion of georgia seven years ago, the confrontational military pattern became obvious to all who wanted to see it. in fact, the eu has been lagging behind in its reactions. that is why mr paşcu’s report is so important and timely. the mistral assault helicopter carriers symbolically connect the georgian invasion with the ukrainian one because, just after the war against georgia, mr putin ordered these modern french-built warships, and the commander of the black sea fleet commented that if they had had these vessels at their disposal, they could have completed the georgian operation in half a day instead of three days. that is why the message of this report is also to france to abandon, unequivocally and finally, the sale of the ships in question to russia. they could well be used for enhancing the security of the eu borders. it is time that the black sea security risks were addressed as a priority, not only by nato but also by the eu, which is in need of a revised and modernised security strategy. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, i think there is no question, and you must be well informed, that the eu is working fully with the osce. but in addition, bearing in mind also other countries of eastern europe which suffered under the soviet union’s occupation and terrorism for half a century, our experience shows that the osce is not enough. we need real security, and that is established in nato.
the security situation in the black sea has undoubtedly become increasingly difficult, as all five of the frozen conflict zones created by russia are in the black sea region. of course, the biggest strain at the moment is the continuing russian aggression in eastern ukraine and the annexation of crimea. he was also a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. however, the situation in crimea and eastern ukraine is not the only source of tension in the black sea region. the frozen conflict in transnistria needs to be finally resolved positively, based on the territorial integrity of moldova. otherwise, it's another potential crisis, and russia will have to withdraw its troops from transnistria. in addition, georgia has annexed abkhazia and south ossetia, which has also increased the possibility of new conflict and tensions in the region. the european union and all those in the international community who consider international law to be important must take very clear steps to reduce tensions in the black sea region.
mr president, it is increasingly important to fight corruption in any structures – international or national – but it is even more important for us to send a clear signal to the football authorities that the corrupted decisions should be revisited. particularly with qatar, we have some time and proper procedures to follow. with russia it is too soon, so let us make it a win-win situation and send a message to fifa saying that it should give the russian championship to brazil, which has invested heavily, and let them get some more return on their investment and face germany in the semi-finals again. or let us give it to great britain, which has all the infrastructure. perhaps it will be their last event as a member of the european union.
mr president, i fully agree with the commissioner that fifa is no longer qualified to run international sport. it needs a complete change. for such a change, first we need to know the full truth. the findings of the garcia report should be published in full. second, the resignation of mr blatter was too little, too late, and it is outrageous that he should continue as president for a further six months. an interim leader should immediately be elected to replace him. third, justice does not arise from injustice. if it is proved that the appointment of russia and qatar as hosts of the world cup has been linked to bribes or any form of corruption, the respective decisions should be annulled without hesitation. it is morally devastating if decisions emerging from corruption are implemented under the pretext of having already been made.
in writing. - i did. the main strain on the black sea security order is the continuing russian aggression in eastern ukraine and the annexation of crimea. he was also a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. however, the situation in crimea and eastern ukraine is not the only source of tension in the black sea region. the frozen conflict in transnistria ultimately needs a positive solution based on the territorial integrity of moldova. otherwise, we are dealing with a potential new crisis. russia must withdraw its troops from transnistria. in addition, georgia has annexed abkhazia and south ossetia, which has increased the possibility of new conflict and tensions in the region. the european union and the international community as a whole, which is committed to international law, must therefore monitor and ensure the restoration of international law and its observance in the black sea region. all five of the frozen conflict zones created by russia are in the black sea region.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill on the fifa corruption scandal. money laundering, conspiracy, corruption and fraud cannot be part of sport. over decades, a systematic and deeply entrenched scheme has been used to unjustly enrich senior fifa officials. fifa's objective is to regulate and promote football worldwide. the rules of the game must be fair and ethical for all and always based on the principle of fair play. all sports organisations should strongly condemn fifa's actions and show zero tolerance. fifa needs to undergo major structural changes, to make its decision-making processes more transparent and to improve the penalties for infringements.
in writing. estonia is one of the countries whose major national holidays, including victory day and st john's day (23 and 24 june respectively), are not observed by the european union. the 20th century saw several wars that helped shape the european countries as we know them today. estonia is the only one of these countries which, in its quest for independence and peace, has achieved victory on two different fronts: against the red army and against the baltische landeswehr. however, we understand the importance of continuing to work and we refrain from requesting days off on estonian holidays or from the european parliament not holding a plenary session on the same day as one of these major holidays. on the contrary, let us work effectively to achieve our desired objectives, for example by unanimously demanding that russia release estonian policeman eston kohver who was kidnapped more than six months ago from estonian territory and who is still illegally detained in prison by the russian authorities.
blue-card question.– i am very glad, mrs pietikäinen, that you have raised this issue of the time span. i completely agree, but i want to ask you whether you agree that not only the election time span, but also another thing – namely the need to go on very rapidly with the digital single market – is one of the factors which is pressing on the commission, and also on us, to have more harmonisation of taxation in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of the european fund for strategic investments, the juncker investment plan. this plan foresees eur 315 billion in investments over the next three years to boost european economy and innovation. this is an original and practical solution in a situation where no extra funds can be expected from the member states. in total eur 240 billion are foreseen to be used for investments, and eur 75 billion will be made available for smes, the backbone of the european economy. the negotiations between parliament and the council have led to more democratic scrutiny from the parliament side – stronger reporting and an increased accountability. i welcome also that parliament gained the right to approve the appointment of the managing director and deputy managing director of the investment fund.
in writing. ‒ the efsi agreement is a good example of effective interinstitutional cooperation. the launch of the fund will give a significant boost to small and medium-sized enterprises, research and development and job creation. the european parliament's major victory is that the budget for the 'horizon 2020' programme and the connecting europe facility is being cut much less than planned. the european commission has also committed itself to reviewing the budgetary possibilities annually in order to find additional funding for these funds.
madam president, the great multitude of national cultures is the common riches of mankind. this is especially true for tibetan culture. today we celebrate the 80th birthday of the tibetan spiritual leader, the dalai lama. may it be an occasion to express our solidarity with his nation, their religion and their culture. dalai lamas must show peace, nonviolence and compassion, and his call to guarantee the survival of tibetan identity needs our strongest possible support. his best birthday present would be for ms mogherini and eu politicians to mainstream, on all occasions, the demand that the chinese government guarantee tibetans genuine autonomy and treat them with the full respect that this unique culture deserves.
in writing.– latvia is a country that serves as the best example of how to recover from deep economic crisis, pursue responsible fiscal and economic policies, and pay back debts in time. they have shown that with political will and people’s reason and trust, one can go from deepest recession to highest economic growth. and they have behaved as responsibly and reasonably also during the last six months. i am very pleased to see the successes of the latvian eu presidency. having had to adapt to terrorist attacks and ever growing security concerns in the eu close neighbourhood, latvia did not lose the grip on what had to be done in the eu. in the very last days of the presidency they achieved agreements on ending the roaming fees by 2017 and an important breakthrough on the network and information society directive that will serve as a basis for protecting our critical information systems and infrastructures. an agreement on strategic investment funds was on the table in record time. also, a long desired agreement on a data protection directive was agreed on. the energy union and digital single market are on the track. in my view latvia has lived up to the expectation of a small and efficient member state bringing steady progress into many processes.
madam president, mr lange told us it is worth a fight. i would say it is mandatory for it to be concluded and implemented – with all the safeguards, of course – because it is a unique opportunity to take control of globalisation and base it on democratic safeguards. if we miss this opportunity, hiding behind a multitude of details and protectionist requirements, the next chance is not certain to come. today the crucial issue is not ttip; the crucial issue is to finally come out of sluggish economic growth. and ttip helps us to do this, because it means an economic boost, more jobs, more trade and more sme opportunities. it is the best incentive for innovation, competitiveness and completing our own single market, and therefore complaining about poor growth and unemployment while at the same time rejecting ttip is hypocritical and runs against the very basic principles of the european union.
in writing. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is crucial to the further development of eu-us relations. this agreement also has important political and security implications. in today's world, strong cooperation between the eu and the us is of paramount importance and a new agreement must be concluded as soon as possible. the eu-us free trade agreement must help to promote economic growth. the agreement must help to increase our international competitiveness and create new opportunities for eu companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and support the creation of quality jobs for european citizens and bring direct benefits to european consumers. the fta creates the most promising free trade area between europe and the us.
in writing. ‒ i supported the nomination of bettina michelle jakobsen as a member of the court of auditors. mr pr jakobsen has more than 25 years' experience in public audit and extensive experience in management and international audit, which is certainly of great value in the court's work.
in writing. - i did. the proposal is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i did. the proposal is limited to the codification of existing legislation without any substantive changes.
in writing. - i did. the processing industry in french guiana is partly dependent on the capture of living resources by venezuelan fishing vessels in the eez. in view of the economic and social importance of such fisheries in the region, venezuelan fishing vessels have been allowed to fish for decades on the condition that part of the catch is landed in the ports of guyana. the landing and processing of fish is therefore an important source of income and employment for french guiana. however, in the absence of an international fisheries agreement between the european union and venezuela, bilateral cooperation does not take place within the framework of the union legal order. in practice, however, the activities of venezuelan fishing vessels are permitted. the eu declaration thus provides a legal basis for action by venezuela. venezuela has complied with the relevant eu rules, such as those on stocks, gear types, vessel tracking devices, declaration of catches, maximum number of fishing vessels authorised and percentage of catches landed in ports of french guiana.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to transfer to the 2015 budget the surplus of eur 1 435 million from the 2014 budget. the adoption of the draft amending budget also reduces the contributions to the union budget based on the gni of the member states by eur 1 435 million.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft budget for the flood relief in romania, bulgaria and italy. financial assistance through the european union solidarity fund should be provided urgently to countries affected by natural disasters. that's what the fund's for. the council must fulfil its obligations towards countries affected by major disasters and eligible for the european union solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to provide assistance from the european union solidarity fund to romania, bulgaria and italy in the wake of the floods that affected them. countries affected by natural disasters should be helped through the european union solidarity fund so that the people in these areas can quickly return to their previous rhythm of life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to set up an integrated ticketing system for multimodal transport. in europe, there is a need to achieve better integration of the different modes of transport, but each mode of transport must also become more efficient, more sustainable and more user-friendly. it is important for users to have one ticket for one multimodal journey, while obtaining transparent information on pricing. purchasing a ticket through a new, simple and convenient system will attract more passengers to use public transport services, and this in turn will increase passenger satisfaction.
in writing. - i did. this is a renewal procedure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft amending budget. i shall make a significant contribution to supporting strategic investments with high economic and social added value, promoting innovation and enhancing the eu's competitiveness, contributing to the eu's strategy for sustainable and inclusive growth. at the same time, i am concerned that programmes such as 'horizon 2020' and the connecting europe facility, which are vital to achieving the objectives of the 'europe 2020' strategy and thus to ensuring sustainable growth in the eu, and which can add significant value, should not be cut.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft amending budget as it strengthens the eu's capacity to help deal with the recent tragic events in the mediterranean and the significant increase in migration flows and refugee flows. migration flows must be managed efficiently and in a timely manner. otherwise, they may entail significant costs in other policy areas.
in writing. - i did. the report provides an overview of the eu dairy sector and identifies a number of concerns, including how to respond more effectively and quickly to crisis situations, how to create sustainable jobs and stimulate growth in all rural areas of the eu.
in writing. - i did. it is important that eu companies and smes participate more in international projects, as this would bring benefits in the areas of job creation, productivity, competitiveness, technology and innovation. this would, in turn, stimulate economic growth in the eu and in third countries.
in writing. - i did. the report points to a number of shortcomings in the fruit and vegetables sector that need to be addressed, including the low level of organisation in several member states and the need to improve crisis prevention and management tools.
mr president, i would like to extend my solidarity to the greek people and equally to commission president juncker. the words ‘referendum’ and ‘reform’ sound very similar initially, but they do not mean the same thing. you cannot simply substitute a vote for the urgency of fundamentally reforming your country. mr tsipras has not explained why his government, having a strong mandate, was not willing or able to come forward with any concrete reform programme, including cutting the civil service and clamping down on tax evaders. while i have every sympathy for greek pensioners, greece spends 17% of gdp on pensions – while estonia, ireland and lithuania each spend less than 8%. we survived and reformed. equality and solidarity apply equally to all, except in communist times, when there was the saying ‘some are more equal than the others’. if there is no concrete reform offer in the coming days, the conclusion can only be that mr tsipras is not operating simply in the interests of the greek people, but that he could well be part of a bigger enterprise of rocking the european boat in a typical leftist communist fashion of ‘the worse, the better’.
in writing.– the recent escalation in the number of terrorist attacks, both on european soil and outside europe, is certainly a cause for concern. we should not forget the victims and their families, and we should stand up for them. however, we should not forget another issue which has remained unresolved for over half a year now. the victim in this case is still alive and could be saved by a relatively simple action. i am talking about the estonian police officer eston kohver who was illegally kidnapped from estonian soil by russian state agents. in clear breach of international law he remains illegally detained in a russian prison. this attack was clearly politically motivated as it came shortly after president obama visited estonia and pledged his continuing support for ʽfree and independent and democratic baltic nationsʼ. ceterum censeo the european union cannot bend to such reprisals and illegitimate demonstrations of force, and therefore should unanimously demand the immediate release of mr kohver.
madam president, we face a negative and destructive synergy in the middle east and north africa. what have been, for a long time, internal conflicts have spilled over to the whole region now. the most dangerous thing is the melting down of borders between states in conflicts. these conflicts have become now international and vacuums are being filled by islamic state and other extremist groups. lawlessness, extreme violence and terrorism have become a new normality in large areas of syria, iraq, libya and elsewhere. by the way, middle east countries represent only 5% of the world population but provide one third of world refugees. eighty per cent of civilians are unable to meet their basic needs now. eleven million children lack possibilities for education. they form the ever widening basis of a new generation of terrorists. there are two points i would like to make. among the different minorities, christians have suffered most widely. violence against them presents existential danger for the future. as a result, this ancient community will disappear from the region where christianity was born, mainly as a result of the determined efforts of muslim extremists to cleanse this area of all other religions. this is something the eu should address with the utmost seriousness, providing them with active protection and probably safe havens. secondly, the situation in iran, which has been for years a source of the exporting of terrorism and instability. to hope that cooperating with the tehran regime and its revolutionary guards would help the fight against isis is, i would say, naive and would be like attempting to oust the devil with the help of beelzebub. why has mosul stayed for more than one year under isis? because local sunni minorities are equally afraid of shia militias, who do not make any difference between them and isis terrorists. so, iran has first to demonstrate credible political will that it is really interested in restoring stability, especially in yemen and iraq. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
could you ask the question once again, please?
blue-card answer.– as far as i can understand this question, of course, we need to generate a more intense and widespread approach to religious conflicts and, as i confirmed, our special care should be christian minorities, which have suffered most as a result of fighting between sunnis and shias.
madam president, the discussion on copyright is far too black and white. it does not take into account the way behaviour has changed in the internet age. it is not as though the creators are going to win and the users are going to lose or vice versa. in the internet age there is no longer any clear division between the authors and the users, because every author is also a user and every user is an author. we cannot stop progress and we cannot stop innovation, no matter how hard we try. our role is not to protect any vested interest but to create laws that actually make sense today in the internet age.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. parliamentʼs support for ttip is a crucial message to the commission and its us counterparts and sends a strong signal to the commission team engaged in further negotiations. i firmly believe that between friends and allies, one cannot have any taboos. on the contrary, if needed, we can frankly argue our differences to find the best suitable compromise. this report, which has experienced serious turbulence since june, was finally adopted on the basis of satisfactory compromise and with a clear majority. aided by the efforts of the ppe group, no additional red lines were created. at the same time, parliament wants to ensure that european standards on health and consumer safety would not be lowered. a variety of concerns from society are now addressed in the report. parliament’s report also asks for the disputed isds to be replaced with a reformed version that provides an acceptable solution for all sides. i underline once more the importance of ttip in managing globalisation on the basis of democratic values and fair competition. not only the eu and the us, but also everyone else would benefit from an open, democratic and legally regulated global market.
in writing. - i did. the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is crucial for the further development of eu-us relations. this agreement also has important political and security implications. in today's world, strong cooperation between the eu and the us is of paramount importance and a new agreement must be concluded as soon as possible. the eu-us free trade agreement must help to promote economic growth. the agreement must help to increase our international competitiveness and create new opportunities for eu companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and support the creation of quality jobs for european citizens and bring direct benefits to european consumers. the fta creates a free trade area between europe and the us with greater opportunities.
in writing. ‒ the main problem in the negotiations is the lack of transparency. it is still unclear whether european producers will benefit from this agreement or not. the partnership brings with it many risks, such as the low cost of production from the us, due to the different legislation on their labour rights, the access of gmo food to the european market, etc.
in writing. - i did. the conclusion of the protocol is necessary by reason of the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. - i did. the conclusion of the protocol is necessary by reason of the accession of croatia to the european union.
in writing. ‒ the extension of the agreement is important, but i abstained in the vote because i think it is important that india resolves the issue of the estonian and british ship guards and allows them to come home. it is important to raise the issue of estonian ship guards in meetings with india. the issue must be on the table at all eu-india meetings.
in writing. - i did. the objective of the agreement is to enable the faroe islands to participate in horizon 2020 under similar conditions to those of eu member states.
in writing. ‒ today's decision by parliament to support the introduction of country-specific reporting obligations for large multinational companies is an important step forward in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance. country-by-country reporting will lead to greater transparency of the taxes paid by companies and help ensure that tax revenue reaches the country where the company actually earns revenue. the commission notes that the contested tax ruling does not provide for any specific tax treatment for luxopco.
in writing. - i did. giving shareholders a more transparent, easily manageable and influential role in the general management of a company helps to foster a longer-term perspective on corporate governance. this is essential because too many companies today are overly focused on satisfying the demand for high short-term profits and productivity. such dynamics lead to poor planning, underinvestment and sub-optimal results in the long run.
in writing. ‒ i supported the draft which would correct the structural flaw in the system and allow it to function as a normal market with stable and competitive prices. the stability reserve should also ensure synergies with other climate policies, such as renewable energy and energy efficiency.
in writing. - i did. the directive aims to improve the rights of seafarers working on board ships flying the flag of an eu member state, taking into account the specificities of the maritime sector.
in writing. - i did. the objective of the agreement is to enable switzerland to participate in horizon 2020 under similar conditions to those of the eu member states.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to adopt a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. in january 2015, there were 23 815 000 unemployed in the european union. the european union needs an effective and coordinated employment strategy, designed to tackle the serious consequences of unemployment. member states should consider their economic policies in conjunction with their social policies. particular efforts should be made to increase employment among workers with very low levels of education or qualifications.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal to grant the european globalisation adjustment fund to finland eur 1 365 000 to help people who have been made redundant as a result of the financial crisis to return to the labour market.
in writing. - i supported the bill. the draft budget for 2016 is a welcome step in this direction to help member states address structural problems, in particular the loss of competitiveness. the commission is well-positioned to respond to new developments such as the crises in ukraine, syria and the mediterranean, in response to the needs of the eu and its member states in the areas of security and migration. more resources should be directed towards tackling youth unemployment.
in writing. - i did. sustainable economic growth requires the efficient use of resources, the preservation of nature and social balance. the initiative addresses the different ways to achieve all this, including through the creation of green jobs, training of people and exchange of information.
in writing. - i did. the report examines the problems of tax avoidance in developing countries and possible eu action to help them combat it. domestic resources are the largest source of financing for developing countries, but the average tax-to-gdp ratio is too low in developing countries. it is important that the eu also contributes to helping developing countries make tax collection more stable and secure. it is important to address this issue both in political dialogue with developing countries and in development cooperation agreements.
in writing. - i did. to make more sustainable use of existing resources, we need to contribute to appropriate legislative measures, economic incentives and research in this area. certainly, the implementation of change will require the involvement of different policy levels. raising awareness is also key to moving society towards greener lifestyles.
in writing. ‒ not supported the proposal to establish maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed in the event of a nuclear or other radiological emergency. we need to move on. radioactive substances cause life-threatening diseases and health conditions, pollute the air, water, soil and vegetation and therefore require measures to protect public health while maintaining the unity of the market and not affecting trade. this bill would be further amended.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a capital markets union, because in the current situation it is of the utmost importance to strengthen european competitiveness and to encourage investment for job creation. it should be noted that insufficiently regulated and controlled capital markets were one of the causes of the financial crisis. the new legislation aims to avoid a repetition of such a crisis by creating a stable financial environment for sustainable economic growth.
in writing. - i did. the new security action plan sets out the main priorities in the field of security and provides for their strengthening through increased information exchange and cooperation. europe is facing increasingly diverse and rapidly changing threats, which require greater cooperation and information exchange between member states to respond. it is important to address the different aspects of the fight against terrorism, such as foreign fighters, strengthening controls at the eu's external borders, trafficking in human beings and also cyberterrorism.
in writing. - i did. yemen needs help now. there are 20 million people in need of humanitarian aid, and more than half of them are children. the international community must contribute to humanitarian aid. so far, it's only been authorized, but very little actual money has been given. humanitarian workers must be given access to those in need. the conflict in yemen is a growing hotbed for terrorists and the use of children as combatants is widespread. the un special representative for yemen is therefore essential to achieve a political settlement in yemen.
in writing. - i did. the conflicts in syria, yemen, iraq and libya, and the growing tensions in the middle east and north africa, are destabilising the region and threatening european security. the eu must make its actions in the region more effective, review its neighbourhood policy programme, step up the fight against terrorism, contribute to the success of peace talks and continue to provide humanitarian aid and find solutions to the refugee situation.
in writing. ‒ to ensure peace, respect for human rights and economic prosperity in the european union's neighbourhood, it is of course necessary to increase funding for cooperation projects and humanitarian aid, but it is not enough to increase funding alone. we need an even more coherent and decisive european union foreign policy and we need to change our trade policy so that developing countries can sell their products more easily on the eu market. the eu's high protective tariffs are one reason why countries in our neighbourhood find it very difficult to export their goods, increasing unemployment and dependence on the eu's humanitarian aid. let's give north africans and others the opportunity to work and be paid for it, while ensuring their human dignity. otherwise, large flows of refugees will continue to flow towards europe and young unemployed people will join terrorist organisations.
in writing. - i did. the risks to the eu countries have been heightened by the rapid deterioration of the security environment in both our eastern and southern neighbourhood. it is therefore essential to review the principles of the neighbourhood policy to take account of the changed international situation. the eu must also be more active in resolving existing conflicts and strengthen its support for ukraine, moldova and georgia.
in writing. both the european union's foreign policy projects the mediterranean union and the eastern partnership were unfortunately successful. the most important thing is to avoid rash political decisions in our relations with our eastern neighbours, which could lead to dramatic consequences (for example in north africa).
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on copyright reform, which seeks to strike a balance between the protection of copyright and the interests of internet users. this is an important guide for the european commission, which has promised to present its draft copyright reform to the european parliament in the autumn. the most controversial clause, the so-called "restrictions on panoramic freedom", was voted out of the bill. the emotional debate surrounding the copyright report showed how controversial and complex it is to deal fairly with copyright issues in the context of the digital market.
in writing. ‒ i supported the bill after the ban on panoramic photos was voted down. copyright needs to be modernised to keep pace with the possibilities of the digital age and to meet the needs of both consumers and creators. i did not consider the restriction on the making and use of panoramic photographs to be reasonable and did not support it.
in writing. - i did. money has been a grateful aid to countries where democracy is in its infancy. i must make the most of this opportunity and increase my contribution to countries like ukraine and moldova, where there is an opportunity to contribute to the development of democracy.
in writing. - i did. the deteriorating political and humanitarian situation in burundi is creating problems for the wider region and has already led to a flood of refugees into neighbouring countries. until the ruling president and political force in burundi stop harassing, intimidating and using violence against people, eu aid to burundi's state budget must be stopped and diverted to humanitarian aid.
in writing. - i did. the prevention of genocide and other crimes against humanity and the prosecution of those responsible for them must be a key principle of the european union's international justice policy. to prevent such heinous crimes from happening again, every effort must be made to raise awareness and tolerance.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, this legislative report was aimed at aligning what is currently legally possible in the eu with the wto ruling, but something that seems very standard and harmless can get more difficult when it is about cultural traditions in some small parts of europe. the proposed maritime resource management exception, which was in line with the wto ruling, was not about reopening the ban on the trade in seal products, but the ban will remain and i, of course, support it. the reality is that, in nordic and baltic countries, there are still licenses issued for hunting seals. there are some cultural traditions: in estonia, for instance, there are 50 licenses granted for this type of hunting and this number is not likely to increase. the fact that they cannot make any use of what they hunt does not contribute to making people aware of it and value it, as they just end up disregarding it. so i stress that this is not about animal welfare, but about the sustainable use of resources. i hope that the commission will look at current practices and see what is the best way to ensure that, while respecting the ban, we still allow traditions to carry on in the smartest way, since legislation that allows hunting but either leads to a waste of resources or creates a grey economy is not good legislation.
mr president, in the context of the refugee crisis i would like to address the problem of statelessness in europe. the right to nationality is an internationally recognised human right. in the european union the large stateless population originates mainly from the break—up of the soviet union and yugoslavia. for example, there are almost 90 000 stateless people in estonia and more than a quarter of a million in latvia. the large size of the stateless population is among the main reasons for reluctance of estonians and latvians to bring a worthy contribution to the solution of europe’s refugee crisis. the problem of statelessness will not go away by itself, at least in the foreseeable future. the fight against statelessness should be promoted at eu level for the sake of european values, internal peace and stability.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the customs union is an important achievement of the european union and also the backbone of the single market. a functioning customs union not only encourages and facilitates the flow of goods in and out of europe but also brings legal certainty to businesses and protects our financial interests. but it cannot function properly if we do not have the proper means for it to do so. national customs authorities should talk to each other and should also exchange information with the european anti-fraud office (olaf). that is why i welcome the setting up of the two databases at european level. however, in order to fight fraud effectively, information exchange also needs to take place as quickly as possible. this does not happen if it takes six months before the information comes to the table for the anti-fraud office to start the investigation. i am therefore happy that shorter deadlines are included in this package. estonia is very efficient in dealing with mutual assistance requests because we have an electronic customs system. if member states have electronic, rather than paper-based, customs systems they should be able to transfer information more quickly – in just a few clicks. so i hope therefore that this new law will not only help to fight against fraud but will also speed up the development of electronic customs, as that can only make customs authorities more effective.
in writing. - i did. the convention dates from 1930, but 85 years later, forced labor is still widespread. there are 21 million people around the world who are victims of forced labour, subjected to physical and mental violence, and subjected to fear and isolation. given that forms of forced labour have changed over time, the protocol aims to modernise preventive and protective measures, legal remedies and compensation mechanisms, and calls on states to also enhance cooperation in the fight against modern forms of slavery.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request by the polish state to waive immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of rejecting the council's position.
in writing. ‒ no, because that would prohibit the disposal of products from seals caught within the quota. it directly concerns some of the estonian regions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. cloning animals raises concerns and question among european citizens: up to 80% of them, out of ethical, moral and animal welfare considerations, do not support animal cloning. scientific research does not take enough account of the ethical considerations and problems. animal cloning is not only cruel treatment of animals; it could also pose a risk for future generations that we cannot predict today. i am in favour of banning all animal cloning, but especially animal cloning for agricultural purposes. it is our duty to guarantee fully not only animal welfare but also food security, and to avoid any harm to human health.
in writing. - i did. the report identifies current concerns in the eu's fundamental rights field and proposes ways to address them. i consider it fundamental that the eu should strive to improve people's well-being, to ensure that there is no discrimination and no violence, and that everyone has the opportunity to live a life of dignity.
in writing. ‒ the situation of fundamental rights in the eu has somewhat deteriorated in recent years. among the main reasons are the new threats faced by member states, including more aggressive right-wing radicalism and irresponsible populism, flourishing against the backdrop of the global economic crisis, armed conflicts and major instability in the neighbouring countries. eastern europe – new member states – demonstrates a low level of ambition for the protection of human rights, as there is no eu policy on political conditionality following enlargement. therefore, it is necessary to improve the system of monitoring and enforcement of fundamental rights within the eu to ensure full respect for european values.
in writing. - i did. the report provides an overview of the hearings of commissioners-designate held in the european parliament in 2014 and also makes some amendments, such as setting a deadline for the nomination of a commissioner-designate to allow more time for the meetings, and also a proposal that each member state should nominate two candidates at a time, one of whom should be a man and the other a woman.
in writing. - i did. information technology is becoming more and more common throughout the world. it is often a tool in the quest for democracy, which is why digital freedom must be promoted and protected at the same time.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because it calls for simplifying and clarifying the complex rules of the cap.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. according to 2009 commission report 60% of all businesses in the eu are family businesses, accounting for 40-50% of all jobs in the private sector. family businesses mostly bear a long-term perspective, aimed to last over generations, presenting a different reality than regular non-owner enterprises. this is an added value, we need to foster in the eu. currently there is no adequate definition on family businesses; some linger between smes and bigger businesses whereas they could not be categorized as big corporations. without clear legal definition, family businesses could face unnecessary red tape and would not be eligible to funds that they actually would be entitled to. one of the core calls of this report is to have more data, facts and figures from the individual member states in order to better understand the issues and challenges that the family businesses are facing. proper data would not only allow decision makers on the eu and national level to exchange best practices, but to learn about the situation on the ground and provide best policy to facilitate the sustainability of family businesses.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, which calls for identifying the needs of family businesses to develop and creating the appropriate framework for them to operate better and more profitably.
in writing. ‒ i remained neutral because certain areas provided for excessive state aid. it does not consider this justified and does not consider the economy to be marketable.
in writing. - i did. the report aims to promote entrepreneurship among young people through training, funding and the creation of various programmes.
in writing. - i did. the preservation of cultural heritage while exploiting its economic potential is important. the report addresses the main challenges in the field of cultural heritage and the possible solutions to these.
in writing. - i remained neutral. the citizens' initiative is a sensible one, but this particular resolution is too restrictive in terms of effective and sustainable management of water resources and limits the freedom of choice of public authorities in terms of involving the private sector.
madam president, i wish to draw attention to one very important part of this active ageing, namely coping on the digital single market and coping in a digital society. more and more services are moving online. more and more jobs are digitalised. however, among people over 55, only 20% have enough skills to cope in this new situation, according to the european digital scoreboard, and 41% of people over 55 have never been on the internet. at the same time, we see that business is being overwhelmed with new prospects for the silver economy, but this is only good for 50% of people over 55. this is connected with problems of training, retraining and having special schemes, and it should be a focal point if we also want to bring the ageing population on board in digital europe.
in writing.– in 2014 we elected a political president to the european commission and today, 2015 he delivered his first speech on the state of the union – a political speech that this house has not witnessed for very long time; a speech that was highly emotional, and very strong in the statements. as the eu, we need to face the reality that instead of blaming and shaming, we have to find a way to work on common challenges. refugee crisis is not a problem of one member state, nor will it be solved by one alone. it is our common responsibility and solidarity. the weakest link is eu´s foreign and security policy which lacks tools and real political will to fight the root causes of current refugee crisis and to put an end to the war in syria and iraq. it is reassuring to hear the president of the commission expressing strong solidarity with baltic states and poland by stating that the security of our borders is untouchable and should be perceived as such also in moscow.
in writing. a humane and workable solution to the refugee crisis must be found quickly. failure to do so, or unwillingness to do so, will increase the risk of european fragmentation significantly. the way in which this crisis is dealt with will also have a significant impact on the future of the european union. the last few weeks have shown that the european asylum system is not working as it should. in the present situation, europe has not been able to deal humanely with war refugees everywhere. but the refugee crisis is manageable, and the european union can tackle it humanely if all countries help. some countries are making serious efforts, but many have not yet done so. such contrasts are also rapidly increasing tensions between eu member states. therefore, all member states should offer a humane solution to the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because the communication is not just with the council, but wider.
in writing. - i did. the situation in the country has improved since the 2014 presidential elections and the conclusion of the agreement is of particular benefit to guinea-bissau as it will help diversify sources of income and avoid dependence on a few export sources and international aid. however, the agreement also benefits the eu, whose vessels will benefit from fishing opportunities in the guinea-bissau exclusive economic zone within the limits of the unused surplus.
in writing. - i did. the document concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution.
in writing. - i did. the purpose of the agreement is to enhance cooperation between the eu and cape verde and to that end to establish a partnership framework for the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the cape verdean fishing zone.
in writing. - i did. the document concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution.
in writing. - i did. the contract specifies the species to be caught and the estimated value of the fish, as well as the amounts to be invested and the estimated overall profitability. the programme of observations to accompany the activity is also presented and the endangered and protected species are listed. the agreement provides a general framework for promoting detailed scientific research, including experimental fishing opportunities.
in writing. - i did. the agreement updates the marrakesh agreement and recognises the differences in implementation capacity between countries. developing and least developed countries are invited to decide when to apply specific provisions of the agreement and some areas are linked to assistance from developing countries.
in writing. - i did. the new agreement is expected to significantly reduce the time and money involved in trade and improve access to new export opportunities for developing country and ldc companies.
in writing. - i did. the agreement falls partly within the exclusive competence of the eu, so austria, belgium and poland need the eu's consent to ratify it.
in writing. - i did. the last few weeks have shown that the european asylum system is not working as it should. europe has not been able to deal humanely with war refugees, but the refugee crisis is manageable and the european union can deal with it humanely if all countries help.
in writing. - i did. more and more people are moving to cities, which creates the need to address a range of issues on a broader scale. the initiative report aims to address the challenges of eu urban policy and to outline the boundaries of future eu sustainable urban development policy.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, the decision by belarus to free the six political prisoners is good news. however, nothing new appears to be happening in belarus. we have witnessed time and again the imprisonment of political activists and civil society representatives in belarus. then, when the political climate is bad enough, belarus steps up and frees some prisoners in order to get a reward from the european union. so on the one hand they release a few political prisoners, and on the other they arrest new ones. we need to see other measures taken that improve the state of democracy and civil liberties in belarus. with the presidential elections approaching, there remain many areas that need to be improved. belarusian opposition activists and civil society must be guaranteed freedom of speech and freedom of political rights. in order for the elections to be considered free and fair, the osce recommendation should be adopted and implemented. there must also be freedom of the media. the eu must find ways to enhance contact between the civil societies of the eu and belarus, and we need to support civil society organisations. the facilitation of visa-free travel is very important. the launch of the visa facilitation talks in 2014 was a good start, but we need to take it further now. and last but not least, the abolition of the death penalty. we will continue to address this issue until its final abolition in belarus. it is the only country in europe that still has the death penalty as a punishment. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– if it really happens and all these people’s civil and citizens’ rights are restored, then it is a step in the right direction. but there are lots of other issues, and we cannot yet be satisfied with belarus. i mentioned some of them; there are more. the level of human rights, the rule of law and democracy are not where they should be.
mr president, madam mogherini’s personal contribution and dedication is to be appreciated. however, the overall result of the deal has not been so convincing, because the iranian nuclear programme has not been cancelled, just postponed, in the best case for 15 years. the result has been buying time. the question is, who is going to use this time more efficiently? it is up to us now to answer. the essence of the iranian regime has not changed; the same undemocratic leaders have a notorious track record of broken commitments. as there is no confidence, as ms mogherini admitted, the question is: will these leaders benefit from the new situation more than their partners? asking for more concessions is impossible, because unfrozen assets will provide money for supporting iranian proxies in the middle east; the missile programme has been left out of the deal; part of the advanced centrifuges will be retained. but i think the central issue is our clear commitment to human and minority rights situations there. it is a basis of trust and any real progress. what alarms me most is that the human rights situation in the meantime has worsened, not improved. under president rouhani, there have been 2 000 executions, many of them for political motives. the european parliament’s position has been very clear: in dealing with undemocratic partners, we have insisted that human rights should be mainstreamed in all agreements and be conducted parallel to economic and security deals, and i hope that it will be so.
mr president, i find it positive that the deal has been reached with iran, and i would also like to thank mrs mogherini for her efforts in reaching this deal. hopefully iran will use this opportunity of sanctions being lifted for its own good, for boosting its economy and advancing the well-being of its people and will not engage in destabilising the middle east region. we need to use this time and this agreement as grounds for dealing with other crises in the region where iran could also be of help. we need to engage the gulf countries and israel in dialogue to try to work on reducing the tensions in the middle east at large and also fighting terrorism. we need to commend iran for their actions regarding refugees: they have already taken more than a million refugees from afghanistan. but we cannot turn a blind eye to the human rights situation in iran. many innocent people are still imprisoned in iran on false charges or are subject to excessive punishments, and this needs to be addressed by eu high officials in relations with iran.
mr president, i want to thank the authors of these reports because discussion about labour markets is urgently needed. in my minute of speaking time i want to concentrate on one topic, which is also referred to in many articles of the report: still not enough is being done to develop a real strategy concerning the effects of the digital single market on the labour market. that is a major challenge. not only do we have to teach computer skills to children, as is mentioned in this report, but we also have to address the structural changes in the labour market which will be a consequence of the digital single market in europe in the coming years. they need very thorough analysis, and i call on commissioner dombrovskis, together with commissioners ansip and oettinger, to present very soon their comprehensive analysis of structural changes on labour markets which will demand new skills. the skills in question are not just simple computer skills, but also more complex skills, which will have to be taught to children and young people. so please come to us with such a strategy, commissioners. the social democrats will help you because this is high on our agenda.
author.– mr president, the cases we are debating today can be assessed as a clear and arbitrary violation of international law, and also of elementary standards of justice, by the russian federation. three weeks ago the estonian and eu citizen, eston kohver, having been abducted last year from eu territory, was sentenced by the russian courts to 15 years imprisonment. the ukrainians nadya savchenko, oleg sentsov, olexandr kolchenko and others have been sentenced and kept in prison for opposing the illegal annexation of ukrainian territory by the russian authorities. we can see all of them, actually, as political hostages. i am very much encouraged by the strong cross-party support in parliament, which is expressed in the form of these yellow ribbons showing solidarity that we are wearing. the message from parliament to the russian authorities is very clear and strong – free all of these people immediately and unconditionally. we call on the council to establish an eu-wide blacklist of russian officials responsible for abducting and jailing eu citizen mr kohver and these ukrainian citizens.
author. in may 2010, a meeting took place in rostov between representatives of the european union and russia, where russia promised to promote the rule of law on its territory. five years later, several ukrainian citizens are still in the same rostov prison. but russia has not only imprisoned ukrainian citizens, but also an estonian eu citizen, kohver, who has been in a russian prison for over a year. the abovementioned violations of international law clearly demonstrate that russia is not living up to the promises it has made to its partners. it is our duty to show that such behaviour is unacceptable and deserves european disapproval. the case, senzov and kolchenko are not criminals and terrorists, but victims of an unfair and politicized trial.
on behalf of the s&d group.– mr president, i want to draw your attention to the fact that eston kohver is not just a citizen of the eu, but an eu police officer whose work is to fight against smuggling and trafficking on the eu schengen border. he was abducted, arrested and convicted for this work. it is very important to put that into context. we have to understand that this deliberate provocation on the part of russia concerns the whole system of the rule of law in europe and the eu. there are other similar cases as well. we want relations between the eu and russia to continue on the basis of international law and human rights. we have to insist on that in all such cases. however, the case of eston kohver is a very special one. it is true that all the ukrainian cases are along the same lines, but i just want to stress that in this instance we can see how russia is deliberately provoking the eu.
- thank you. - thank you. russia has been stealing the life of estonian police officer eston kohver for over a year, who was abducted from estonian territory on september 5 last year. the same day as the nato summit in wales. the eston case robbery has been a travesty in russian courts, which has now culminated in a 15-year sentence in a maximum security prison. russia has violated both international law and the human rights of the estonian case by abducting the case. i call on all colleagues, all member states, the european commission and the european political parties, in their contacts with russia, to demand the immediate release of eston kohver, a citizen of the european union, so that he can return home to his family, where his four young children are waiting for him, after the time he has already lost. behind the names of koever, shevchenko, sentsov, kolchenko, there are specific people whose lives are being destroyed by the russian political game. i also call for support for the amendments to today's resolution, so that the crime is followed by the inevitable consequences and punishment. - thank you. - thank you.
once again, we are faced, dear colleagues, with an authoritarian and putinist russia, which, despite the loud words and the signatures of international agreements, behaves like a savage. and we're dealing with three people today who have been abducted from their homes and imprisoned in russia, but if we don't get serious, then in the next six months we're going to have to deal with the next people and so on. that is why i think the amendment tabled by the ecr group has improved our resolution so that the russian officials and judges involved can feel the sharp edge of the european union sanctions. and we can say that the judges are not guilty, they were just following orders, but i remember that at nuremberg we found that the judges were also guilty, which means that the order came from adolf hitler himself. and then, finally, another 20 seconds, that when my grandfather was taken from his home by the russian authorities and when a british spy was sentenced to 25 years in prison, after khrushchev had some judge come and apologize, say, "sorry, man, we arrested you, we held you in prison and we didn't really have a case". then why did you plead guilty? and he said that if you had beaten and tortured me for another forty days, i would have declared myself emperor of china. so freedom for these three!
in writing. - i did. the previous programme did not achieve all the objectives of cohesion policy. the new policy programme 2014-2020 is aimed at promoting employment and smes, and at ensuring that young people and education are provided.
in writing. - i did. the general objective of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations was to facilitate the creation of a culture of active ageing in europe, based on an inclusive society for all age groups. the project was a success and it is hoped that many initiatives will continue in the future. the estonian active ageing strategy for 2014-2020 is a positive example.
in writing. - i did. i believe it is important to transform the transport system to make it as efficient, cleaner, safer and more reliable as possible. this is an interim report to increase and coordinate efforts to achieve sustainable mobility.
in writing. - i did. by limiting the representation of women in science, we are ignoring the significant potential that our universities have and we are undervaluing highly qualified people. this reduces the potential benefits of research and innovation-related entrepreneurship and overall economic development. member states are invited to fully implement the gender dimension in order to reduce the 'glass ceiling' effect and to support women's participation in research.
in writing. - i did. i believe it is important to ensure equal opportunities at all levels of education. the report suggests a number of ways to do this, including the inclusion of lgbt issues, non-violence and anti-discrimination in the education curriculum.
in writing. - i did. switzerland's participation in the internal market of the european union is positive, as it promotes growth, competitiveness and job creation. at the same time, it is important to address concerns such as switzerland's reluctance to fully implement the agreed principle of free movement of persons and problems related to student mobility.
in writing. - i did. a humane and workable solution to the refugee crisis must be found quickly. failure to do so, or unwillingness to do so, will increase the risk of european fragmentation significantly. the way in which this crisis is dealt with will also have a significant impact on the future of the european union. the last few weeks have shown that the european asylum system is not working as it should. in the present situation, nowhere in europe has the humanitarian response to the war refugees been adequate. but the refugee crisis is manageable, and the european union can handle it humanely if all countries help. some countries are making serious efforts, but many others have not yet done so. such contrasts are also rapidly increasing tensions between eu member states. therefore, all member states should offer a humane solution to the refugee crisis.
in writing. - i did. the situation in the middle east is becoming increasingly tense and has consequences that increasingly directly affect the eu and its citizens, including through the large numbers of refugees who come to europe in search of peace. it is important to address the problems in the middle east, to try to find solutions that would help the region to return to normalcy. the active role of the eu, which must be more active and visible, is also important.
in writing. - i did. the release of six political prisoners from belarusian prisons is a good sign of belarus's desire to improve relations with the eu. the upcoming presidential elections are a good opportunity for belarus to demonstrate that its wishes are serious. this requires guaranteeing freedom of the media, freedom for opponents to stand and to contest on an equal footing with others, and respect for human rights. access for osce observers to observe the elections must be ensured. it is of the utmost importance that belarus abolishes the death penalty as the last country in europe. it is also important to reassess the situation in belarus after the presidential elections in october.
in writing. - i did. given that the eu will have to address important challenges such as economic and financial sustainability, social well-being and, in particular, job creation in the near future, with particular regard to the most vulnerable groups such as young people, women and the elderly, the long-term unemployed, the disabled and migrants, it is essential to further develop social entrepreneurship and innovation.
in writing. - i did. given that the unemployment rate in the eu stood at 9,9% in december 2014 but youth unemployment was twice as high, and that at the same time some 2 million jobs remain unfilled due to labour market imbalances and low labour mobility, it is clear that reforms are needed to address this imbalance. efforts must be made to reorganise the education system and to increase cooperation between the education system and enterprises, as well as to preserve the skills of the unemployed. the skills and job matching needs to be adjusted and the integration of currently excluded groups such as the elderly, young people, immigrants, etc. needs to be increased.
in writing. - i did. this is an overview of the monitoring of the application of eu law, which shows that eu member states continue to have difficulties in the timely transposition of directives, while civil society has become more active in monitoring the correct application of eu law.
in writing. the european union's meeting of interior ministers was disappointing, as no effective solution to the refugee crisis was found. the refugee crisis is further deepening tensions between eu member states, and the lack of consensus on how to resolve the refugee crisis in a humane way is starting to spill over into other areas of the eu. only unanimity in the eu will allow us to move forward with the budgets for the coming years, some countries receiving more and others paying more, and with security policy issues. the reintroduction of border controls at some eu internal borders, triggered by the refugee crisis, is also putting pressure on the schengen system and the free movement of persons. a swift agreement on solutions to the refugee crisis can halt the fragmentation within the eu, so that all member states feel the support of others in their difficult situation.
mr president, i echo other colleagues’ welcoming of the summer energy package, and i am particularly happy to see that the commission sees the importance of empowering energy consumers, as consumers remain the driving force for competition in any market. it is very important that consumers be informed, because if they are informed they make the right choices not only about prices, but also about protecting the environment and ensuring energy security. however, consumers need to get that information about prices and about suppliers, and also about the possibilities of switching between suppliers. therefore, i believe that data-driven technologies such as data hubs should play a big role in empowering consumers. data hubs get the dsos to share information publicly about the different suppliers and their possibilities, and also about the way that consumers can switch between them. i therefore believe that the redesigning of the electricity market to integrate more renewables and introduce more flexibility in the market should go hand in hand with data-driven technologies, by creating new opportunities for consumers to decide how, what and from whom they want to consume their energy.
mr president, commissioner, and my dear colleagues! it is good news that agricultural aid has been granted to producers in estonia and the baltic states, given our emergency situation, which is being compounded by the russian embargo, the crisis in the dairy sector as a whole - which is still the result of brussels' policies - and the african swine fever that has hit us. it has indeed been a catastrophe. yesterday our farmers were not in brussels, but in tallinn. they also called on the estonian government and local authorities to act more effectively. against this backdrop, yesterday's news has been very positive and very well received. i believe that it will also help to strengthen the sense of solidarity of the estonian peasants, in order to help those in need in other countries. but it's certainly not enough. it is not sufficient in terms of money and it is not sufficient in terms of other measures. perhaps most importantly, the commission has planned to focus all aid measures and organisational measures, including vat issues and the reduction of red tape, on the original producer, the first link in the entire supply chain. we await further action and hope that we will still be able to overcome this crisis together.
in writing.– the real situation and economic survival of european farmers is threatened by the current crisis and needs to be addressed both by the eu commission as well as by the respective member states. in addition, the farmers’ situation is dependent also on their country of residence. what is worrying me especially is the fact that the income gap between countries which joined the eu since 2004, and older member states, has during the past 11 years remained practically the same or even widened. ironically, even today, orwell’s famous saying ‘all are equal but some are more equal than others’ holds true. the current crisis in the dairy sector is a dramatic example of this inequality. in estonia, milk prices for producers are about one third lower than the eu average. both the eu and the member states need to work to eliminate such an unacceptable divide to ensure fair conditions for all participants. the ec has foreseen eur 500 million extra aid to eu farmers, with estonia anticipated to get some eur 7 million. this is clearly not enough to address the crisis and to balance inequality of incomes. they need more both from the eu and from the national budget.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because it highlights the concerns facing the eu and gives guidance on how to address them better.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour the commission’s 2016 work programme despite the fact that it omitted mentioning a crucial element, namely the situation of eston kohver, the estonian police officer who was illegally kidnaped from estonian soil one year ago and was recently sentenced to 15 years imprisonment on trumped-up charges. the european parliament adopted an urgency resolution on this matter last week in strasbourg, which is why it is regrettable that this matter was not included in the commission work programme 2016. this would have given the eu an even stronger mandate to push for the resolution of this issue.
in writing. in solving the refugee crisis, we mustn't hide our heads in the sand. the european union must become more effective, and each member state must contribute much more to this end. the strengthening of the eu's external borders is certainly welcome, in order to better screen war refugees against economic refugees, but we must ensure safe entry for the first ones into the eu and, to this end, strengthen cooperation with third countries such as jordan, lebanon and turkey. we need to move forward with practical steps, such as supporting language learning and integrating refugees into european society, and to find adequate funding from the european social fund.
in writing. - i did. the draft decision authorises the member states to ratify those parts of the protocol which fall within the areas of competence of the european union. the convention needs to be updated and the protocols should be ratified as soon as possible in order to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced labour and to provide protection for victims.
in writing. - i did. the introduction of control measures is necessary to prevent the misuse of 4-methamphetamine.
in writing. - i did. the introduction of control measures is necessary to prevent misuse of the substance.
in writing. - i did. the introduction of control measures is necessary to prevent misuse of the substance.
in writing. - i did. the introduction of control measures is necessary to prevent misuse of the substance.
in writing. - i did. bulgaria and greece are in a difficult situation, both economically and from natural influences. it is important to help the countries to rebuild their infrastructure, their companies and their private property. bulgaria is preparing for harsh winter conditions and greece is struggling with flooding on the evros river and in the central and western part of the country, which is why the fund's funding is important to secure the future.
in writing. - i did. the extension of the protection of a geographical indication to non-agricultural products has a positive impact on consumers and producers alike and is beneficial for tourism, culture, employment and trade.
in writing. - i did. the objective is to help greece recover from the effects of the financial crisis as quickly as possible, and to promote economic recovery, investment and job creation.
in writing. - i did. the german car industry is suffering from declining car sales due to the economic downturn. as german industry relies heavily on car production, the downturn has led to large-scale redundancies. in order to function, industry must support production.
in writing. - i did. the belgian automotive industry is suffering from low revenues, which have led to redundancies. the market has in recent decades favoured asian car manufacturing, which has benefited european companies little. the belgian automotive industry has been strongly affected by this change. the financial contribution therefore helps them to cope with the losses.
in writing. - i did. the italian air transport sector has suffered severely as a result of the economic downturn. in order to ensure a continuous air service, the alitalia group has increased its manpower and introduced other casino measures. the european aviation industry is in close competition with the middle east, which is the world's fastest growing aviation sector. therefore, local firms must be supported to remain in the european market.
in writing. ‒ the success of development policies is dependent on the effective implementation on local level that directly targets the communities and individuals in need. european external policies, including development policies need to reach far and create the desired multiplier effect. in the current refugee crisis, it has become even more evident that europe has to do more to aid communities in their home regions. this does not only mean allocating more funds, but making also sure that these funds actually reach local communities and are spent in a meaningful, sustainable way creating added value within the community. the un last week adopted the ambitious sustainable development goals. many of expected outcomes can only be reached if local authorities and communities are fully on board. eu should play a constructive role here and empower local communities as much as possible, for example by considering decentralised financing mechanisms that would enable in case of difficult, or malfunctioning state hierarchies to bypass those.
in writing. - i did. given the important role of local authorities in promoting development cooperation, it is important to support and encourage them even more and to finance them accordingly.
firstly, it is important that the european union emerges from the paralysis it has been in over the past few years on the syrian issue and takes a clear political initiative in offering solutions to end the war. russia's move into syria should come as no surprise to anyone. we have been too surprised by russia's behavior in recent years, whether it's the invasion of georgia, the annexation of crimea, the invasion of eastern ukraine now the intervention in syria. as long as the european union is debating, analysing and thinking, we must already be tackling the biggest humanitarian crisis of this century in the form of refugees. people are fleeing both the assad regime and the islamic state extremists. the eu should contribute as quickly as possible to the establishment of no-fly zones in syria and to the convening of a donor conference to help syrian refugees. the fact is that russia is attacking anyone who opposes assad, not just isil. at the same time, the prerequisite for any viable solution to end the syrian war is cooperation, not the satisfaction of the ambitions of one country in a global confrontation at the expense of the syrian people.
mr president, i wish to make three points. in trying to avoid direct involvement in the syrian crisis the eu has ended up in the role of good samaritan, taking care of the results of that catastrophe. i think it is now time to invest in solutions, and these involve, firstly, no-fly zones and safe areas on the ground, as well as an international donors’ conference. second, putin and assad have lost all credibility. they are not part of the solution: they are part of the problem. trying to oust isis with the help of assad or putin means ousting the devil with the help of beelzebub. third, a red line for the eu should be that a solution in syria cannot be reached at the cost of weakening support for the integrity of ukraine or watering down the minsk criteria. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain. i think mr assad’s government has lost any legitimacy, and mr putin never asked the un to start his military operation in this area. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
blue-card answer.– i am absolutely not against a diplomatic solution, but what i tried to explain is that the eu missed out on the opportunity to be actively involved in a diplomatic solution four years ago. we have just been observing the problem, and we are not providing enough aid to help refugees. i am fully for a diplomatic solution, but it cannot be reached with the help of, or by counting on, murderers like assad.
in writing. we would not be here today discussing the current situation in syria if we had made more far-sighted decisions in the past. if the european union had had a real common security and defence policy, we could have exercised greater influence in the regions around us. as president junker has vaguely mentioned in the past, we should have a common european armed forces. in this hemicycle i have repeatedly warned that we would regret france's unfortunate decision to sell mistral warships to russia. france itself would be the first to regret it. in fact, after returning the money to russia, he would be trying to sell the same ships to egypt. the latter strategy is also not acceptable, as it would be a new missed opportunity for the eu to fully implement the lisbon treaty by creating a european navy. armed with these technologies, we would really have an opportunity to make a real impact on the situation in syria. the european union needs a common defence policy based on the presence of common armed defence forces.
in writing. - i did. tunisia, one of the few positive examples of the arab spring so far, has not been spared by the economic downturn. the european union, as tunisia's main trading partner, must support tunisia by allowing it to participate in eu programmes and by also increasing cooperation in areas such as education.
in writing. ‒ the european small claims procedure should simplify and speed up litigation concerning small claims in cross-border cases, and reduce costs. it was designed specifically to help consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) enforce their claims, thus ensuring access to justice. this procedure has proven to be a useful tool, though it needs to be broadened in order to minimise the bureaucratic burden. the european small claims procedure has reduced the costs of litigating cross-border small claims by as much as 40 % and has cut the duration of litigation from up to two years and five months to an average of five months. usage of small claims tribunals in some member states, however, remains significantly low, and consequently more needed to be done in terms of legal certainty, use of modern technology and transparency of proceedings. i call on the commission to come up with an e-solution to mediate between the different parties, by enabling digital signatures, e-identification and electronic procedure, in order further to reduce litigation time and costs.
in writing. - i did. the new rules will simplify and speed up the handling of small crossborder disputes and help to reduce court costs. the amendments are beneficial for consumers and businesses alike.
in writing. - i did. the aim of the amendment is to regulate emissions of air pollutants from medium combustion plants, which have not been generally regulated until now.
in writing. - i did. the amendment brings the compositional requirements for edible caseins into line with international standards.
in writing. - i did. this will bring the financial rules into line with the new directives. these directives concern public procurement and the award of concession contracts and therefore facilitate the quicker award of foreign and security policy and defence policy contracts, which in turn ensures more efficient management of affairs in the european union.
mr president, commissioner šefčovič’s initiative to investigate the legal aspect of nord stream ii is very welcome because it is an open use of energy tools for geopolitical gain, and i would even call it part of a notorious ‘hybrid war’. whatever the legal niceties invented by corporate lawyers in russia, germany and at royal dutch shell, we will give you all our political support, mr arias cañete, to overrun them. however, in order to avoid a possible lose-lose situation, we all know that our legislative triangle – commission, parliament and council – can easily turn into a bermuda triangle where good intentions simply disappear. we need mr tusk to act and put the issue onto the agenda of a council meeting. only then can frau merkel and monsieur hollande see through the eyes of robert fico, ewa kopacz, victor ponta, bohuslav sobotka, laimdota straujuma and others and see what a fatal mistake it would be to have mr putin and mr schröder build this environmentally damaging and economically unviable gas pipeline. i think, mr arias cañete, you were in the oil business. well, i was in the gas business, as a builder in the soviet army of soviet-german gas pipelines. so i would like to end on an optimistic note. russian ability to deliver gas is actually a bluff. gazprom may have a few millions for the national front in france but that is all – 50% is unused for nord stream i. stop the stupid plan to have another one which is aimed at killing ukraine first and then the rest of us.
member of the commission.– mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for their comments, and i am glad that we are very much on the same line on this topic. let me repeat that, in the context of energy security, diversification is the key, and this is the policy that the commission is developing. we are supporting all diversification projects. we will launch an energy, gas and storage strategy early next year. it will be of the utmost importance in view of the future evolution of liquid natural gas. we are supporting the developments in the southern corridor, because it is fundamental that the trans-anatolian and the trans-adriatic pipelines are put into production. initially the capacity will be only 10 billion cubic metres (bcms), but in the future we will have lines not only to azerbaijan but also to turkmenistan, and, when the conditions are right, we will begin importing iranian gas. there are new developments in the mediterranean: we are speaking about substantial amounts of gas: almost 3 000 bcms in proven, discovered gas. other possibilities are additional. we also want to connect the iberian peninsula with central europe; this will permit the flow of algerian gas. so there are many diversification projects at the moment. our strategy is diversification of sources and routes. nord stream ii does not follow this core policy objective. on the contrary, if constructed, it would not only increase europe’s dependence on one supplier, it would also increase europe’s dependence on one route. more precisely, the project would dry out the transit through ukraine, concentrate 80% of russian gas imports on one route and would lead to a dominant position of gazprom on the german market by increasing its share from 40% to over 60%. therefore the alignment of this project with our european energy strategy on security of supply raises serious doubts. in this spirit, it is crucial to preserve safe transit through ukraine, which today represents about half of the russian gas coming to the european union. as i said before, there is overcapacity for transport of gas from russia. for these reasons the nord stream ii project cannot ever become a project of common interest. it cannot ever benefit from european union financing or european union support. i reassure you that we will continue our rigorous assessment of the nord stream ii project, in particular to ensure full compliance with internal energy market legislation. we will get in touch with the designated pipeline operator and the german regulator in order to find out more about the details of the project. on that basis, the commission will draw its conclusions on the legality of the nord stream ii project and the next steps to be taken by the commission. i will keep the parliament informed about any major development on this matter. it is for companies to decide whether the nord stream project is commercially viable or not. but if the project is implemented, the task of the commission is to ensure full compliance with eu acquis. as i said before, nord stream ii will have to comply fully with european union law, in particular the third energy package but also environmental, competition and public procurement rules. i will pay personal attention to that.
president of the council. mr president, very quickly, the presidency would like to thank the european parliament for this very useful debate and for its interest in the issue of energy security, including the nord stream gas pipeline project. energy security is a key issue for the european union, its citizens and its economies. energy security, as i believe the debate has shown, involves a multiplicity of economic, environmental and geopolitical aspects. the union must have a common vision and objectives and speak with one voice. the energy union provides a framework that should enable the union to achieve these objectives. i would like to quote, particularly in the light of what the commissioner has just said, what was included in the conclusions of the european council of 19 and 20 march 2015. i quote paragraph 2 (d) which says: 'to ensure that all agreements relating to the purchase of gas from external suppliers are fully in line with eu law, in particular by enhancing the transparency of such agreements and their compatibility with eu provisions on energy security'. i believe that what the commissioner said goes very much in that direction and therefore the presidency will not fail to convey the concerns that have been expressed tonight to those who are entitled to do so.
in writing.– nord stream 2 poses a principal dilemma to the eu. are we following our own common policies or turning a blind eye? a consortium of five energy giants has agreed with gazprom to increase the volume of nord stream by 55 cubic metres by 2019. as a result, the eu will significantly increase its energy dependence on russia, whereas one of the main aims of the third energy package is to diversify energy sources. this is not an economic, but a political problem. the energy package also clearly foresees unbundling measures that in this case are clearly ignored. gazprom, which has been the most ferocious opponent of unbundling has obviously achieved a victory over eu common policies. nord stream 2 aims at bypassing pipelines crossing ukraine. this will result in weakening kiev economically and promise more energy insecurity for central european states. instead of eliminating energy islands in the eu, the latest developments will create new ones. i call upon the european commission to investigate closely these developments and to rigorously apply the eu third energy package, ensuring full compliance with unbundling rules and energy diversification goals.
in writing. given the current international situation and the european union's objective of increasing its energy security and reducing its energy dependence on russia, the plan to extend the nord stream gas pipeline project is contrary to these objectives. there are many examples of russia's use of energy to influence its neighbors. the most recent example is ukraine. the plans to extend nord stream would also give ukraine an additional boost, as a significant part of the gas imported from russia currently reaches europe via ukraine.
author.– mr president, the september wave of new clashes indicates how volatile the situation really is in the central african republic. i am really concerned about the threat of a revival of sectarian fighting. last saturday, two christian churches were set ablaze or ransacked. then a mosque and muslim radio headquarters were attacked. there was an attempt to murder one of the top christian leaders there. therefore, the most important task is to contain the violence and return the country to national reconciliation, the rule of law and regular elections. i think it is important to avoid formally opposing muslims and christians, a practice being misused by political and economic groups. for example, the so—called anti—balaka militia is falsely labelled as christian, whereas it has animist roots or whatever. therefore, international pressure and more humanitarian aid are needed and, as i mentioned, regular elections are what we expect next.
in writing. - i did. the improvement of the european union's payment services rules reduces the costs associated with payment services, improves the security of services and is necessary to keep pace with innovation.
in writing. - i did. i consider it important that financial operators act in good faith and do not mislead or abuse the trust of customers who may not have the best knowledge of mortgages, investments or credit cards and the associated liabilities. consumers must make their choices with full awareness and understanding of all the risks.
in writing. ‒ in the years of crisis in most european regions, especially in the countryside, there was observed the fall in house/apartment prices. as a result in many member states even after eviction from their housing due to failure to pay debts or mortgage fees people owe huge sums to banks and this undermines their ability to organise their life properly (for example, to lease another adequate housing). debtors’ housing may be sold by a bailiff in enforcement procedure (sometimes below market price) but it still may not be enough to pay off debts. one of the most evident solutions to this problem is 'datio in solutum', i.e. the possibility for the debtor to unilaterally force the full extinction of the loan debt at any time by delivering of the mortgaged property to the lender.
in writing. - i did. the european union must continue to work to convince countries that still practice the death penalty to abolish it. in many countries, the number of people sentenced to death has increased, and the death penalty is also used to punish homosexuals, adulterers, and the disabled. executions are also carried out, for example, by stoning, which is torture by international standards. this approach to people's lives has got to stop.
in writing. - i did. the resolution stresses that more should be learned from the disaster. prevention of similar disasters is needed by strengthening environmental safety requirements and compliance and by complementing eu and international legislation.
in writing. - i did. gender equality and women's empowerment should be one of the key tasks of the european union institutions and this process should be accelerated by allocating more money to it and also made a priority in the field of development cooperation.
in writing. - i did. the european union must work consistently to reduce the gender pay gap. women's lower wages not only affect their current economic security, but also future incomes such as pensions. it also hinders the development of society as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the situation of european women on the labour market is characterized by systemic discrimination. this is reflected in lower income, lack of representation at the highest levels of the career ladder and concentration in the less prestigious and less profitable sectors of the economy. particularly vulnerable are women of childbearing age. available settings in the field of education, in fact, reproduce the gender imbalance in the labour market. the issue of gender equality in the eu received public and member states’ recognition, although the measures taken so far have not led to a radical change in the status of women on the labour market and to achieving substantive (rather than formal) equality between men and women in employment, in political and social life.
in writing.– in order to create an effective european energy union we need to diversify our energy supply, increase energy efficiency, and increase the use of indigenous resources, especially the renewable ones. however, some european energy companies are trying to undermine these goals by conspiring with kremlin-controlled gazprom to double the capacity of the north stream pipeline, thereby making europe even more dependent on russian gas. russia has time after time demonstrated that it does not hesitate to wield energy supply as a political weapon. it would be foolish to make our energy supply even more dependent on such an unreliable partner. furthermore, this project would allow gazprom to bypass ukraine as a transit route, which clearly serves the kremlin in its attempts at further destabilising and sabotaging ukraine. this foolish project would most certainly have negative repercussions on europe’s security of supply and on the energy union as a whole. ceterum censeo, germany will certainly regret its decision to make europe even more dependent on russian gas, just as france regretted its decision to sell mistral class warships to russia.
madam president, i do not agree with jan albrecht that it is bad news that the young man schrems spent four years achieving what our institutions could not achieve in 15 years. i think that is very good news, and i very much hope that there will be more and more young people like him, because this is the only way to ensure that the european standard of data protection is implemented in all member states. this court decision is very important, and not only for our future transfers with the united states. we also have to look at the situation in our own member states because, in the digital single market, more and more personal data of people from one member state will be collected, stored and used in other member states. here we see the national security clause effectively removing from the data protection system the protection of those data. we have to be sure that the standards of the democratic system will be implemented and protected in all countries – for example, in the case of hungary, where we are absolutely sure that this it is not the case. so we need – and we have also spent a very long time talking about this – a system of reporting and control over the rule of law in member states, and we also have to have, from the commission, some framework and some red lines in relation to the definition of national security in connection with data protection, because, more and more often, this is a very practical issue. the next schrems might bring a case, not against america, but against europe.
in writing. the court's ruling on the eu-us data exchange agreement creates a precarious situation for technology companies. in this regard, guidelines should be developed for the time when future data exchange rules between the eu and the us will be agreed. it is clear that the data of eu citizens must be protected and it must be clear under what conditions us intelligence agencies will access that data. at the same time, it is essential to resume as soon as possible the negotiations with the us for an enhanced data protection agreement, as this will help develop both the european economy and the digital economy.
madam president, the shooting-down of malaysia airlines flight mh 17 was an eye-opener for many societies on russian aggression in ukraine. two hundred and ninety-eight lives were lost. now we have the results of the investigation into this horrible crime: the missiles were launched from the so-called separatist-controlled areas in eastern ukraine, from a missile system of russian origin. the report brings us one step closer to finding those responsible for this crime and bringing them to justice. also, political responsibility must not be forgotten. russia’s behaviour has been strange during this whole investigation. it did not support the creation of a un international tribunal but has, instead, been developing its own version of the shooting-down. we should not forget that this tragedy was possible only because of the russian aggression in ukraine. every single day that this aggression continues we have new victims and refugees.
i fully support the rapporteur in that we must not give in. we must not really let ourselves be deceived into thinking that things are already better and everything is going well and we can start to lift sanctions and think only about other problems. we cannot let russia win this syrian gambit that it is playing with the european union. i would like to draw attention to what was said about the internal flow of refugees in ukraine. we know that there could be a next step, exactly the same thing that we've seen in the south -- that the flow of refugees starts moving out of ukraine. which means we have to deal with these internally displaced people in ukraine, there is a need to help them, there is a humanitarian disaster! but we also need to use the young people there in the sense of giving them the opportunity to train, to come here to the european union, to raise this new young resource there who can also go back to eastern ukraine and help rebuild local life there. so i think it's very important that we have a training program for those young people who are now refugees themselves.
the shipowners, who are estonian and british nationals, have been detained by the indian authorities in india for two years. there is no charge against them and it is unacceptable that a partner country of the european union treats indian citizens of the european union in this way and does not allow them to return to their home country, as i have said for two years. the release of the estonian and british guards must be discussed at every eu-india meeting until our citizens finally have a chance to return home. given that european union citizens have been detained in india for so long, the european union should be more explicit in its support for the release of its citizens. the european commission should make proposals on the possible freezing of some joint programmes and agreements between the european union and india until the return of estonian and british nationals is ensured. the european union cannot stand by and watch this kind of treatment of its citizens.
in writing. travellers who book a package via the internet should enjoy the same legal protection as those who book through a travel agency. the amendments introduced give travellers the right to terminate the package travel contract if the price is increased by more than 8% of the total price of the package before departure. before the package travel contract or offer becomes binding on the traveller, the traveller is also entitled to explanations about the offer and who is responsible if something goes wrong. the changes are significant given the continuous increase in the number of trips purchased online, including package holidays, and the decrease in people's direct contact with the travel agent.
mr president, we definitely seem to have problems with communication in this house as well. i often say that there are disparities between the communication that knows no borders and the barriers to communication that countries actually create. roaming surcharges are a good example of this. i am happy that they are coming to an end in 2017, although parliament wanted a much earlier end date. but net neutrality goes beyond that date. how net neutrality is defined and how it is enforced will shape the future of the internet. we must remember that the internet was created to be an open platform for innovation and communication. it did not seem to matter until recently when we saw all the innovation coming from the internet. so we just cannot allow fast lanes to be created for those who pay. i am not only thinking about the start-ups that are not able to innovate on the internet, but we should also think about citizens who cannot receive their e—mails because somebody else is paying for the fast lane. so i would in particular call for commission vice-president ansip to clarify the remaining issues in order to ensure that the principles are applied in the same way across europe, and in this respect also to think seriously about the role of berec in order to look at the big picture.
blue-card question. – mr farage, you compare the situation in an eu country, portugal, with the situation in the former ussr. i know you do not have experience of living in the ussr. we have. can you please give an example of where brezhnev, or somebody else leading the soviet union, was confronting the results of democratic elections in one of the ussr’s republics or members? (applause from certain quarters)
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal, as it is a repeal of obsolete legislation.
in writing. - i did. it is important for the detection of tax fraud and tax evasion that the eu and switzerland exchange data and that switzerland also applies measures equivalent to those required by the eu. the aim of the agreement is to improve international cooperation in the field of taxation.
in writing. - i did. the fight against tax avoidance and the need for fair taxation are important and must be conducted according to clear rules and not impose an excessive burden. the repeal of the directive seeks to avoid a situation where member states are obliged to report twice. it is important that no loopholes should be created during the transitional period.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to step up the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to step up the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to step up the fight against terrorism and cross-border crime.
in writing. - i did. passengers who book a package via the internet will now enjoy the same legal protection as those who book through a travel agency. this is a necessary step in a situation where the internet has become such a commonplace way of buying travel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it opens the door to the european single market for electronic communications. abolishing roaming fees is overdue, but now it shall be accomplished by july 2017. it will make travelling and working in the eu easier and cheaper. in a way it is a symbolic act of truly open europe, a victory that benefits all european citizens and fosters equal opportunities for european enterprises. net neutrality as presented in the report, seems to be sufficient to protect the interests of an open and non-discriminatory internet. i echo the concern of various representatives of the internet community. risks will always remain, as net neutrality could be implemented in different ways and on different ethical levels. nevertheless, i remain optimistic and trust that all the stakeholders, especially the european parliament, have taken such risks into account. in order to go on with the european digital market and related legislative acts that will soon be proposed by the commission, we need to have regulated the european electronic single market. if we had started bargaining again, it would have jeopardized possibly the whole process, delaying the whole european digitalisation process.
in writing. ‒ in addition to the abolition of roaming charges from june 2017, the second important development is the establishment of clear eu-wide principles for internet access. this ensures that there is no discrimination between internet services.
in writing. ‒ the abolition of roaming charges has been long awaited. the common market in europe has existed for years and it is unreasonable to continue to maintain frontiers where life itself has abolished the need for them. the abolition of restrictions on telephone calls in other countries is necessary for businesses to operate in the single market and directly benefits all consumers. that's why i'm supporting this initiative. i also support the general application of the principle of net neutrality, as at present only a few eu member states have put it into practice.
in writing. ‒ i supported the amendments aimed at strengthening the bill. it is important to strengthen the eu's fight against the death penalty and for the abolition of torture in the world. the regulation contributes to the protection of human rights by controlling goods which could be used for capital punishment or torture. hopefully, the trilogy will have the desired effect.
in writing. - i did. tax fraud and tax evasion are a major problem in the eu and worldwide. to address this, there is a need to increase the exchange of information between countries. the directive seeks to address this issue and lays down the scope and conditions for the mandatory exchange of information on cross-border tax rulings. however, the mandatory exchange of information should be extended to all tax rulings, not necessarily only to tax rulings with cross-border effects. it is also important that the exchange of information is rapid and takes place in a secure environment.
in writing. - i did. this is a discharge.
in writing. - i did. while the motion for a resolution draws attention to several shortcomings in the eit's accounting, including on the audit side, it acknowledges that, in general, previous recommendations have been taken into account and the situation has improved, for example, follow-up audits have been carried out and internal measures have been reviewed.
in writing. - i did. the court considers that the accounts correctly reflect eniac's financial situation.
in writing. - i did. the eu institutions must be transparent and accountable to eu citizens for the use of eu funds. the institutions are required to cooperate with each other in the discharge procedure, which the council has so far failed to do.
in writing. - i did. it is important to improve cooperation with humanitarian organisations in order to respond as effectively as possible to the different crises. they often have a better overview of the country concerned and are more ready to act in a crisis area. development aid to third countries must also be increased; the contribution of all eu countries is important. however, eu development aid in third countries must be targeted and adequately monitored to ensure the effective use of eu development funds.
in writing. - i did. the deception and misrepresentation of millions of consumers by volkswagen regarding vehicle emissions is most regrettable. it is also regrettable that the eu has not recognised the existence of infringements and that the eu internal market legislation is not being fully enforced. in the current situation, it is essential that the european commission and the member states do everything possible to restore consumer confidence by adopting the necessary measures.
in writing.– the commission’s work programme for 2016 impressed me, yet i must make a tiny comment related to certain aspects of this year’s preliminary activities. we often hear complaints that the rules and procedures to make eu funds available for smes are too complicated, slow and even controversial. the commission has rightly begun to look for ways to ease them and cut out red tape. however, it is more than unpleasantly surprising that the responsibility for the high level working group on this topic has been given to the person who is actually responsible for all the complexity, obscurity, non-transparency and other problems within the existing system. indeed, that person spent 10 years in the barroso commissions complicating everything! yet mr juncker and the college of commissioners have allowed him to preside over the u-turn in policy. the appointment of former commissioner mr siim kallas to such a position is like getting a wolf to guard the sheep. or even an attempt to put a square peg in a round hole! it is indisputably a misuse of european tax-payers’ money.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for her draft proposal, which is a good basis for us to work on, and i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their determination and tenacity. i have four quick remarks. as for efsi, we stand firmly behind the rapporteur to achieve full actual restoring, i.e. heeding, of the promises to undo efsi-related cuts, in particular with regard to horizon 2020 and cef. regarding migration, while we support the approach, we still believe, as stated in the resolution on dab 7 a couple of weeks ago, that in particular the european asylum support office needs to be boosted further. we welcome the wisdom of the budget committee to fight for the end of bullfighting subsidies and very much hope that plenary does not fall back behind that. it was only one vote which decided the whole thing. allow me a short comment on iter. we regret that the excellent amendments made by mr berger were withdrawn. they reflected well the current concerns with the bad management and rising costs of iter, as confirmed recently by the german government. we hence hope that the plenary rejects the iter position and supports our own amendments which, while not coordinated with mr berger, could have been his. we found a good compromise on the eu-ep budget, but we believe it is crucial to identify further saving areas for years to come, and i would promise to come up with some radical ideas in the committee. let me finish by encouraging the rapporteurs to continue being tenacious until the very end of our upcoming conciliation process.
with next year's budget, the european union has the opportunity to correct some of the important shortcomings of the past in relation to the large-scale refugee crisis. it is therefore essential to finally increase funding for syrian refugee camps in turkey, jordan and lebanon, as well as for refugee camps in other conflict areas. improving living conditions in these centres would allow refugees to avoid the dangerous journey to europe, partly because of the catastrophic underfunding of refugee camps. yes, it is expensive to provide basic living conditions for the people in these centres, but it is even more difficult to see these people making the dangerous journey to europe. secondly, there is a need to significantly increase the contribution to the establishment and adequate maintenance of reception centres for refugees in greece and italy. this would allow an end to the tragic and uncontrolled movement of refugees across europe. there is also a need to significantly increase the contribution to supporting the well-thought-out development of the european union's southern and eastern neighbours, including ukraine.
mr president, i would like to thank ms mogherini sincerely for her passionately positive message in reminding us of our constructive role and of the need for a reality check to help heal conflicts abroad. the same applies, of course, for south sudan because the refugee crisis we are facing in europe should not prevent us paying attention to the similar tragedy that south sudan is facing. true, it is still unclear if there is enough political goodwill to implement a ceasefire but i welcome the eu’s willingness to step up our engagement. our absolute priority is to secure a credible peace and implementation of the cotonou agreements: without that, even humanitarian aid will not reach those in need, and south sudan will face hunger. we hope to do our utmost to enable this war—torn country to move towards stability, security and national reconciliation.
in writing. - i did. with next year's budget, the eu has the opportunity to correct some of the major shortcomings of the past in relation to the large-scale refugee crisis. it is therefore essential to finally increase funding for syrian refugee camps in turkey, jordan and lebanon, as well as for refugee camps in other conflict areas. improving living conditions in these centres would allow refugees to avoid the dangerous journey to europe. the contribution to the establishment and adequate maintenance of reception centres for refugees in greece and italy needs to be substantially increased. this would allow the tragic uncontrolled movement of refugees across europe to be stopped. the contribution to supporting thoughtful development in both the eu's southern and eastern neighbourhoods must also be substantially increased. the 2016 budget must be able to contribute to real changes in the economic system of ukraine and to support other countries moving towards full market economy and the rule of law. in the case of ukraine, moldova and georgia, the eu can also do more than it has been able to do budgetarily.
in writing. - i did. with next year's budget, the eu has the opportunity to correct some of the major shortcomings of the past in relation to the large-scale refugee crisis. it is therefore essential to finally increase funding for syrian refugee camps in turkey, jordan and lebanon, as well as for refugee camps in other conflict areas. improving living conditions in these centres would allow refugees to avoid the dangerous journey to europe. the contribution to the establishment and adequate maintenance of reception centres for refugees in greece and italy needs to be substantially increased. this would allow the tragic uncontrolled movement of refugees across europe to be stopped. the contribution to supporting thoughtful development in both the eu's southern and eastern neighbourhoods must also be substantially increased. the 2016 budget must be able to contribute to real changes in the economic system of ukraine and to support other countries moving towards full market economy and the rule of law. in the case of ukraine, moldova and georgia, the eu can also do more than it has been able to do budgetarily.
in writing. ‒ i agree that to speed up court proceedings, the number of judges needs to be increased, but this increase does not need to be doubled. it therefore did not support proposals to double the number of judges. the already agreed increase in the number of judges by nine should be taken as a basis and the problem of national representation should be solved, for example by introducing a rotation system.
in writing. - i did. it is important to ensure that any exemptions in the black sea area do not lead to deterioration of the marine environment.
in writing. ‒ i supported the rejection of the european commission's proposal. the proposal is essentially unworkable because there are no customs and border controls at the eu's internal borders. the economic and political achievements of the european customs union and the single market would be destroyed if control were to be reinstated. it also makes the conclusion of free trade agreements with third countries very difficult.
in writing. - i did. the review of the novel food regulation is necessary as a number of scientific and technological developments have taken place in the food industry in recent decades and it is appropriate that the legislation takes account of this new reality.
in writing. ‒ i supported it and i hope that the trilogue will be a good outcome in the final vote. air quality is a field that very clearly affects both human health and our wider environment. air pollution causes hundreds of thousands of premature deaths in the eu every year. therefore, there is a need to act immediately to reduce air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the european citizens’ initiative is to become an efficient tool for millions of eu citizens to participate in shaping eu politics. from an enthusiastic start, it had a bumpy road towards practical implementation. a multitude of initiators and signatories of different initiatives have complained about bureaucratic burdens and non-friendly user procedures. this is what this report aims to improve. firstly, the citizens’ initiative procedure has to provide timely and continuous information so that possible hurdles and non-compliance can be prevented. the europe direct contact centre has to be prepared and ready to answer questions at every stage of preparing for a launch of an initiative. the one-stop online shop should also be providing support for preparation of citizens initiatives and help in guiding activists through the initiation process; it should assist with translation, technical, legal and other information and aid. data collection must be harmonized, so that it becomes easier to actually collect signatures. secondly, the online signatory system is not working properly. signing online should become simple and yet safe; it should be possible to link the signing page with social media and web campaigns.
in writing. - i did. the idea of the european citizens' initiative is to enable citizens to participate in the eu's policy-making and legislative process. however, in order to do so, the system must be user-friendly and feasible. the regulation on the citizens' initiative should be reviewed, deficiencies identified and supplemented and amended accordingly. it is also important to make the possibility of a citizens' initiative more widely known to citizens, so that more and more people can use it. it is also important that citizens' initiatives eventually reach the real evictions.
in writing. - i did. i think it is important that all european countries have the prospect of eu membership. it is also important that these countries continue to engage in the fight against corruption, the development of the rule of law and the protection of human rights.
in writing. - i did. cohesion policy and the europe 2020 strategy are important tools for achieving eu growth, creating jobs, reducing poverty and social exclusion and harmonising the development of different regions.
in writing. - i did. it is important that decisions on reallocation or suspension are used only in exceptional circumstances and are reasoned and reasoned.
madam president, as a rapporteur on the data protection directive, i have to say that we are now working on providing european citizens with the highest level of protection of their basic rights, and it is only this which could give us some moral right also to demand the same from all other partners in the world. but at the same time, as this report shows, things are not in line with those high standards in some or many of our member states – we do not know how many. the big problem is what was already referred to by my colleague jan albrecht, and what also i am very glad was mentioned by the commissioner, namely that, as national security is under the competence of member states, we really do not have common eu standards to understand where the borders lie in respect of national security issues, and how a citizen can understand how his rights can be protected when carrying out certain actions, when crossing this border, because the border is not visible. we in the libe committee have asked the commission several times to give us a common definition, a common framework, of how in the eu we understand what is national security and what is not, and we have not had a clear answer. now i ask the council too, because when we are working on the directive, then we come to this grey area between public security and national security, and it is really very difficult to reach a solution without knowing where this border is and what are the guarantees for the other side of the border, the national security area, so that we really can say to our citizens: yes, we have the highest standards; yes, every eu citizen’s fundamental rights are protected above all other considerations, irrespective of the situation. so i urge the commission and council to provide us with this kind of clear knowledge of what we mean by national security.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the fight against long-term unemployment is a great challenge to all member states as this phenomenon is harmful to economic and social development. the alde group supports the initiative by the commission on the integration of long-term unemployed people into the labour market and the three main elements of the proposal. fighting unemployment requires more efficiency, consistency and cooperation regarding the integration of the long-term unemployed. an individual approach, assessing people’s abilities and needs, is also crucial, and a written job integration agreement can be beneficial. however, on the basis of some negative experiences of the european youth guarantee, we call on the member states to consider regional differences. in some regions the fight against unemployment is limited by the narrowness of the local labour market. this problem may be addressed by creating a favourable business environment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. unfortunately, labour taxation systems in some member states do little to promote the creation of new jobs. another important aspect of the fight against long-term unemployment is labour-force mobility at three levels – regional, national and eu. there should be no obstacles to freedom of movement in the european union, and the commission should react swiftly where it sees such obstacles. for instance, in the baltic region, workers’ freedom of movement is compromised by disproportionate professional linguistic requirements. the fight against long-term unemployment is heavily dependent on the ability of both the commission and member states to cooperate in an efficient way. there should be no artificial obstacles for job seekers on national labour markets. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i will just give you one short example: taxi drivers in the city of narva, where we have 87% russian speakers, have to speak estonian on b1 level. at the same time, they do not have estonian-speaking people using these taxis and they are not able to do this exam. it means that they are unemployed or, in the worst cases, unemployed in the long term.
in writing. - i did. the adopted regulation aligns the legal basis of cepol with the amendments made to the treaty of lisbon. training of law enforcement officials is of paramount importance in the fight against cross-border crime.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to increase the eu's financial stability and transparency.
in writing. - i supported the motion. it is important to strike a balance between internet freedom, privacy and electronic surveillance. any suspicion cannot be a justification for mass electronic surveillance of people and the violation of their privacy. the eu, in cooperation with the us, must find ways to encourage transatlantic cooperation between technology companies while protecting individual rights. it is also important that as many countries as possible join the eu convention on cybercrime.
in writing. - i voted against it. the european semester process aims to ensure the coordination of integrated economic policies at eu level, using the combined instruments of macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance. the european commission makes country-specific recommendations, but despite this, member states implement less than 10% of them, which is not enough. it is important that country-specific recommendations are more binding, ensuring more effective economic development and reducing unemployment problems.
in writing. - i did. the number of unemployed in the eu member states is a concern and it is important that countries know how to use eu funds, ensure adequate public funding and that cooperation is carried out at national and local level, as well as between the private sector and training institutions, in order to alleviate the situation. it is also very important to provide the unemployed with the necessary training.
in writing. ‒ i support the initiative by the commission on the integration of the long-term unemployed into the labour market and the three main components of the proposal. however, member states should consider regional differences. labour taxation systems of some member states can hardly promote creation of new jobs. there should also be no obstacles for freedom of movement in the european union. for example, in the baltic region freedom of movement of workers is now compromised by disproportionately high professional linguistic requirements.
in writing. - i did. the rapidly evolving market for drones brings both opportunities and threats. there is a need to establish a european legal framework for the use of drones for civil purposes, which would allow the industry to be innovative and competitive in the world, while ensuring the safety of people and the protection of life, property and personal data in the use of drones.
in writing. - i did. tourism in the eu needs to be competitive and this requires the development of various areas such as advertising, sustainable tourism, accessibility, etc.
in writing. - i did. it is essential that the position of an aeroplane can be determined at any time during its flight in order to respond as quickly as possible to an emergency situation, if necessary.
the european commission decided on saturday that the contributions made by the owner of the airline estonian air, the estonian state, to estonian air were not in line with the state aid rules and had to be repaid. this led to the closure of the estonian airline, which significantly impaired estonia's competitiveness and resulted in the loss of 160 jobs. the claim was that the payments made by the estonian state as owner were harmful to competition, but what competition was this? estonia is sparsely populated and distant from the centres of europe. most european airlines have never wanted to fly to estonia. the commission notes that the capital injections were made in the form of a capital injection of eur [...] million. how is the deterioration of the communities of one small member state important to the interests of the european union as a whole? the new aviation package must take account of the fact that aviation competition is not operating normally in countries with a small population and far from the centre of the european union. they cannot be taken on the same scale as the short distances between the major european cities. the european union's legislation needs to be changed so that even small countries and those far from the centre of europe can have direct flights to the major european cities. it's just not the market.
in writing.– there are countless examples of cases in which state aid, whether in the form of financial aid or monopoly rights, is legally granted to companies operating a under a public service obligation, in other words a service that is in the public interest but not commercially viable. unfortunately, with its recent decision the commission caused the bankruptcy of estonian air. connecting a country of 1.3 million people in the periphery of europe to the rest of europe and the rest of the world is a political choice based on our european values, and is not necessarily a commercially viable business plan. while the rest of us are politically striving for ‘an ever closer union’, the commission acted against european values and the interests of the eu project. regardless of the commission’s technical evaluation, in practice estonian air was operating a service in the public interest. the commission can talk about alleged market distortion in the abstract, yet there are no competitors waiting to jump in and substantially fill the gap left by estonian air. having a viable transport connection with the rest of europe is a necessity for estonia’s livelihood.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i think we should start this debate with a question: what kind of internet do we want? do we want a closed internet or an open internet? if we have made the choice that we want an open internet, we should stick to that choice and make the rules and regulations fit for that choice. a few weeks ago we adopted the telecoms package, where we agreed that net neutrality principles should be applied across europe in a uniform way. it is therefore very unfortunate that today we have to discuss these zero-rating practices. zero-rating practices do eventually lead to a closed internet. they will lead to fewer choices for consumers, less innovation and also fewer opportunities. the commissioner referred to how the national regulators should implement the law, but i think there is the rub, because if national regulators implement rules that are not clear, we will have 28 different types of rules and we will not have the clarity we very much need for the internet to function and for digital services to flourish in europe. therefore i call on the commission to be very clear and to come up with their clear solutions for zero-rating practices as well as net neutrality so that this can be applied across europe in a uniform way.
madam president, if migration is a problem, we should perhaps look at history. homo sapiens emerged from kenya and consequently conquered the whole of our planet. so this is not a big issue. i think mrs georgieva is doing the best she can do in order to facilitate a solution to the current problem. but we are not going to solve the problem by pouring more money into boiling hotspots. we have to think europe, including in terms of defence and security. that is why i would like to stress, once more, that we need a common security, defence and foreign policy.
in writing. the eu must act consistently to tackle the migration crisis, both in the countries where it originates and in europe, where we are already dealing with the consequences, but where winter is coming closer and closer, bringing with it ever more new challenges. several countries have already contributed to the financing of eu actions to manage the migration crisis and it is important that all other countries also make a real contribution to their financial commitments. i am pleased to note that estonia is contributing eur 150 000 to the eu trust fund for africa. the madad fund, set up to respond to the syrian crisis, also contributes eur 150 000.
madam president, i have to say to my colleagues: unfortunately i cannot meet you very soon, because my national air carrier has gone into bankruptcy because of a commission decision on the grounds of illegal state aid. i want to challenge the commission. the decision has been taken wrongly, because the periphery must be encouraged to come to brussels and not punished for coming to brussels. but there is also the other side of the coin, namely that we are promoting people who are responsible for that bankruptcy to european jobs. the former prime minister of estonia, mr andrus ansip, is now a commissioner for the digital market, and the former minister of economic affairs, mr parts, is going to be appointed by the estonian government to be an auditor for europe. i wish we would vote against all those kinds of decisions.
in writing. - i did. a programme of interoperability solutions for european administrations, businesses and citizens will be created, increasingly improving the potential quality of public services and creating an environment where businesses can increase their competitiveness and citizens' satisfaction increases. digital solutions will be developed for use by the public sector, businesses and citizens.
in writing. - i did. the aviation sector is large and growing, contributing to both eu economic growth and job creation. the competitiveness of the eu aviation sector requires that it be modern, comfortable and safe. it is important that the eu's peripheral regions also have as many good connections as possible with the rest of the eu. in this respect, the eu competition rules and the conditions for granting state aid should also be reviewed, especially in view of the fact that it is not very easy for small countries on the periphery of the eu to establish air links economically, but it is nevertheless essential. there is no real competition and no harm to anyone in terms of competition rules. in addition, it is necessary to consider how to better ensure the protection of the rights of airline employees in the event of the bankruptcy of an airline.
member of the commission.– madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, madam reintke, and the shadow rapporteurs, mr kósa and mr urtasun, for their very constructive approach on this own-initiative report. thank you so much. it supports several of the novelties introduced by the legislative framework for the european structural and investment funds for 2014-2020. these include the fact that funding for social inclusion and poverty reduction should amount to at least 20% of the member states’ european social fund budget. in fact, member states have allocated 25.6% of the european social funds’ total budget – the total budget is about eur 21 billion – to measures aimed at social inclusion. this includes support for marginalised communities such as the roma. i welcome the rapporteur’s recommendations, many of which are fully in line with our guidance to member states. let me start by stressing that ʽpromoting social inclusion, combating poverty and any discriminationʼ is one of the eleven thematic objectives of the european strategic and investment funds. under this thematic objective, marginalised communities can receive support through a dedicated investment priority. in fact, member states have programmed about eur 1.5 billion under this priority. i am pleased that the report supports the explicit, but not exclusive, approach taken by the commission in the use of european strategic and investment funds in support to marginalised communities. other thematic objectives – on education and unemployment – can also be mobilised to enhance european union financial interventions. the european strategic and investment funds are geared towards delivery on the european union 2020 targets and the ensuing priorities set out in the country-specific recommendations. a tangible illustration of this is the fact that member states which received country-specific recommendations on roma integration have all programmed support under the dedicated investment priority on marginalised communities in their programming documents. the new legislative framework has also ensured that an adequate policy framework is in place before member states receive actual european strategic investment fund support through so-called ex-ante conditionalities. with regard to the roma, member states are required to set up a national roma inclusion strategic policy framework. this is crucial, as the implementation of national roma integration strategies in countries with sizeable roma minorities largely relies on european social fund and european regional development fund funding. i would like to refer now to some of the recommendations you made in your report. the report calls on the commission to guide member states in defining marginalised communities. i would like to stress that it is the member states’ responsibility to define the marginalised communities on the basis of national indicators, taking into account their national context. this is based on the assumption that member states are in a much better position to define the target groups for their support. the report also rightly draws attention to the issue of segregation, a very difficult issue. spatial and education segregation/desegregation are complex and critical issues which both the european regional development fund and the european social fund address. the commission prepared a guidance note for member states on the use of european union funds in tackling segregation. it should help support inclusive education and housing for roma. infringement procedures have been launched against some member states because of discrimination of roma children in education. the importance the report attaches to the involvement of all relevant partners in the preparation and implementation of programmes is well echoed by the strengthened partnership principle in the common provisions regulation. its enforcement has been carefully ensured by the commission during the negotiation phase of the programme. you also mentioned the european union urban agenda, which should help cities to improve the implementation of european union and national policies on the ground. following discussions between the commission, member state cities, experts and stakeholders, urban poverty has been selected as a priority area where roma inclusion may play an important role. the reinforcement of the administrative capacities of public and local authorities, which has been identified in the report as a key challenge, can be strongly supported by the funds. a dedicated thematic objective on administrative capacity can be used to support public administration in delivering services to marginalised communities in a more efficient manner. i very much welcome your call to empower marginalised communities and to ensure they can get easier access to european union funding. i am convinced that a greater use of simplified cost options, fundamentally simplifying the management of the funds, as well as territorial approaches, including community-led local development, will play a crucial role in ensuring such better access. finally, the report rightfully underlines the added value of transnational cooperation and exchange of good practices. this will be reflected in the new urbact programme as well as in the new european social fund transnational cooperation framework. as a final note, i would like to stress once more that it is the commission’s firm intention to steer the european union towards social fairness. this requires that no citizen can be left behind. i therefore express in the strongest terms possible my commitment to use all means at the european union’s disposal to reach the union’s marginalised communities. and we are very grateful that this report helps us stay on the right path.
in writing.– the eu should be more consistent in its cohesion policy. the commission should not drive small peripheral member states towards further marginalisation, as it recently did by issuing its damning decision regarding estonian air. unlike in the air malta and cyprus airways cases, the commission did not accept estonia’s ‘peripheral geographic location’ as a justification for state aid although these cases are extremely similar. according to their previous decision: ‘the commission notes that air malta as a small carrier with a fleet of only 10 aircraft which does not have much possibility to benefit from synergies and which additionally intends to meet specific needs due to malta’s peripheral geographical situation is not comparable with major flag carriers or large lccs’ and that air malta is ‘vital for malta’s economic and social cohesion both internally and with the rest of the eu by providing daily transportation’. estonian air was even smaller with only 6 aircraft serving a country of 1.3 million on the periphery of europe, which is why it is astonishing that the commission decided to ignore all the decisive arguments forming its own previous decisions and did not consider estonia to be in a situation comparable to cyprus and malta.
mr president, the war in syria is a challenge for europe, and the activities of isis are the most dangerous and imminent threat. the recent terrorist attacks in paris and the tragic fate of the russian plane in egypt prove that the war has come to europe. there were many concerns raised after the start of the russians’ interference in syria. we like to talk about differences in values with this country. however, from the perspective of isis, europe and russia are twins. isis is a danger not only because they are radicals or terrorists; isis has become an alternative project for the future of the middle east and for the entire world. at the recent meeting in palanga, the baltic presidents said they would not join any coalition fighting isis if it included russia. it is not the first time that the baltic states seek to evade their solidarity duties under this pretext. this approach is very wrong. we need to be united against a common enemy with all political actors, including russia, iran and others. the fight against isis is too important to abandon for geopolitical reasons.
mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for giving us the opportunity to debate the energy issues – the new tool in the kit, commissioner, as you said. but it is important to be careful that this tool does not turn out to be a toy, and that is why i would like to add my voice also to the chorus of those who have been objecting and criticising nord stream. because nord stream is not so much about diversifying our portfolio and reducing coal production; it is nakedly about cutting off ukraine first, and then poland and other countries second, from the supply lines and thereby finishing the whole independence of ukraine. so commissioner and dear colleagues, just as we stopped the stupid french crazy idea to sell mistral warships to russia, we must now stop these awkward gas traders.
mr president, the main message of this report is very clear: it is that a lot has been done, but also a lot more needs to be done. vice-president, you rightly point out that the electricity grids and gas pipelines are the backbone of the integrated energy markets, so what is absolutely key in this process is to identify the right projects to be cofinanced and supported from the european union level. so we should say ‘no’ to all these projects that further protect national energy sovereignty, and ‘yes’ to projects that will improve energy security not only for the countries concerned, but also their neighbouring countries. balticconnector is a good example of this. it is a gas pipeline between finland and estonia that will also improve gas supply for neighbouring countries and decrease our dependence on russian gas. another good example is the synchronisation of networks with central european networks.
in writing.– the interconnectedness of the european electricity market is seeing some real progress. the baltic states could soon be connected to the nordic electricity market through the connections to sweden and poland that should be completed by december 2015. a true single energy market would also lower the price for the european citizens. achieving lower prices is a priority for the epp group and we expect the eu to deliver on that. energy security still remains a great concern. the so-called nord stream 2 (ns2), presented as a deal between private companies, is clearly a political project, dominated by russian state monopoly gazprom. as such it will undermine eu energy security, principles of fair competition and european solidarity. using nord stream 2 will enable russia to stop sending its gas through ukraine and increase its hold on kiev and the economy. as meps, we are highly concerned about such back-door energy deals and about the ease with which multinational companies can bypass eu rules on competition and unbundling. in particular, big international energy deals have to be fully transparent and provide for diversity of energy supplies, not increasing dependency on russian gas. i support the polish government’s initiative to stop ns2. in fact, several european countries are against these plans. the ec must scrutinise this project with special care.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because over time a number of acts have become obsolete or their content has been incorporated into other acts.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because over time a number of acts have become obsolete or their content has been incorporated into other acts.
in writing. ‒ i supported it because over time a number of acts have become obsolete, have lost their relevance or have been taken over by other acts.
in writing. - i did. this will enable the eu to become a full member of the bluefin tuna commission and, in this context, to participate in its work as a full member.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to make it easier and safer for consumers to buy insurance by harmonising information sharing and consumer protection requirements.
in writing. - i did. with statistics showing that one in four children in the eu and 22% of children in estonia live in poverty, it is high time that countries made poverty reduction a priority. children and their parents must be guaranteed access to education, healthcare and health insurance.
in writing. ‒ in recent years in europe the number of children at risk of poverty or social exclusion as well as children living in absolute and long-term poverty has increased. in estonia, the percentage of children who cannot eat meat, chicken or fish two days running has doubled since 2008. the right to free and universal education, health and social security systems is crucial for the efficient fight against child’s poverty. the commission should make tackling the early school leaving rate an explicit priority.
in writing. - i did. often, the formal involvement of communities is not enough, but a substantive contribution is also needed to integrate society and promote tolerance. the allocation of eu funds to this end provides an opportunity to substantially enhance coherence.
in writing. - i did. the un must be a promoter of peace and a problem solver in the world, and the eu must work to make its voice heard more clearly at the un. at the same time, it is important to reform the un security council, to find a solution to the excessive use of the veto in cases of crimes against humanity and to make the election of the un secretary-general more transparent, so that the un can more effectively be the place where the crisis can actually be resolved.
mr president, honourable colleagues. first of all i would like to express my gratitude for the excellent team of the european parliament delegation led jointly by nos trois mousquetaires, messrs arthuis, fernandes and deprez. bravo! secondly, i would like to thank madam georgieva, who presented such a decent compromise. more than being just an honest broker, she attached something like almost motherly love towards the quarrelling kids of hers, the council and the parliament, and of course – in my opinion – parliament behaved better. four points. i praise the 274 meps who voted for the greens’ amendment asking for greater transparency regarding the use of a general expenditure allowance. in my country, this is public information and no harm has been done, except to those who abused the funds. secondly, the cuts to iter were a bit too modest for our liking. this project, in my opinion, is a total waste of taxpayers’ money, and the money should be used elsewhere. where, i will tell you in 30 seconds. thirdly, although the medium-term payment challenges were recognised and the institutions have committed themselves to ensuring that the massive payment backlog seen in the recent past are indeed something that belongs to the past, it is not getting any easier, and therefore we need to make sure that we are flexible enough to fight back against whatever comes our way. finally, taking into account the present and looming crises – refugees and migrants, including climate migrants – and the fight against terrorism, the eu security and defence policy area is still under-financed. it is common sense to take money from iter to develop this.
i would like to emphasize that this battle that is going on right now is a battle of values. european culture is being attacked, european values are being attacked, not christianity, but those european values that come from the french revolution - freedom, fraternity and equality - those principles that come from the philosophy of kant, ethics, universal ethics, freedom of choice, and all this is being done, yes, under the guise of religion, but it is fundamentalism of the kind that europe has even seen. we remember nazism, we remember communism, and they were all about brainwashing young people, all of these terrorist tools, and so on. we should not be surprised, we should think about the historical experience of how young people are brainwashed. those young people who long for some other values or who feel bad about their own society, their own home, are easily won over by brainwashing. and that is why we should think precisely about how to shape european education, how to shape european media, how to shape our relations, to make them convincing, credible and honest. and here i would also like to say that the first victims of this same struggle could be ourselves here, if we start fighting each other with the same methods, if we start using these same stereotypes towards each other. and that's why i have to say that i was very sad to see this campaign that was started here by one party against the others in order to win democracy for themselves. democracy can be won for itself, democracy will win if we are all here as allies, in solidarity with each other, fighting terrorism.
in writing. despite the growing threat of terrorism, european societies must be able to avoid panic and allow it to exert an undue influence on their daily lives. today's emergency in brussels is a problematic example of how criminals are able to alter the daily schedules of millions of people. the biggest problem for europe's internal security is the criminal eu citizens who have participated in isil activities in the middle east and their co-conspirators. eu countries must make it a serious criminal offence to travel for the purpose of planning or committing a terrorist act. the transfer and return of foreign fighters from eu citizens to isil poses a major security risk to europe, as at some point some of these people will return to europe with new connections, skills and radical extremist ideas. it's time to finally stop looking the other way and stop letting these people disturb the peace of millions.
in writing. - i did. the draft amending budget provides for an adjustment of the customs duties forecast, an update of the forecast for other revenue and a reduction in the budget of the european data protection supervisor. regrettably, no agreement was reached on the use of the funds returned from this corrective budget project in the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution and decision. activating the flexibility instrument to finance measures under the european agenda for migration shows once again how important it is to ensure the flexibility of the european budget. today’s reality cannot be any more clearly predicted, nor can one clearly distinguish between the areas of policy and action due to their interlinkedness and horizontal nature. the ep, ec and the council should consider this when negotiating next multiannual financial framework and come up with innovative and flexible solutions. i am also pleased that in the general budget the ep managed to reverse most of the cuts proposed by the council. today we need to prioritise not only investments into eu economy and r&d but even more to citizens’ security. facing the challenges of addressing numerous massive crises around the eu and the refugee flows, the proposed budget cuts lack touch with reality. as member of the wg on financial instruments, i especially stress flexibility to be able to allocate adequate resources to tackle the root causes of the refugees crisis. only flexibility can make it possible to allocate necessary resources to assist people in their home countries
in writing. ‒ i supported the need for additional resources for urgent action in the area of migration and refugees.
in writing. - i did. in the case of disasters and major natural disasters, the most important thing is the speed of response. the eu solidarity fund will provide eur 50 million to speed up the delivery of aid in a situation of urgent need.
in writing. - i did. there is a significant need to increase financial resources to deal with the refugee crisis and it is important that eu member states contribute at least as much as they can to both africa, syria and un funds.
in writing. - i did. in view of the hazardous nature of dehp and its adverse effects on the environment and human health, it is necessary to regulate the release of this chemical.
in writing. - i did. recent tax scandals have shown that corporations ignore tax rules and that member states do not exercise sufficient supervision over tax liabilities. equal opportunities for all enterprises must be guaranteed in taxation.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. the core to fight against terrorism and radicalisation in the eu lies in effective and rapid information exchange. pnr is long overdue and has been constantly blocked by alde in this house. eu needs a functioning pnr before the end of 2015 to prevent terrorist acts in europe. further, i support the rapporteur in her efforts to prevent radicalisation in prisons, notably separating individuals preaching radical ideologies. i welcome the move by belgian authorities who decided to isolate one of hate-preachers from other prisoners. the internet has become an efficient tool for terrorists in spreading hate-speech and recruiting new members. internet service providers have to assume concrete responsibility to eliminate any hate-preaching and radical terrorist-aiming messages. eu member states have to be prepared for criminal prosecution if isps fail their responsibility. the europol cybercrime centre needs access to data, availability of the latest technology and more staff not only monitor individuals, but also flows of money, weapons and trafficking. eu institutions and member states can enhance their role primarily by providing them with adequate legal and budgetary framework!
in writing. - i did. the biggest problem for europe's internal security is the criminal eu citizens who have participated in isil activities in the middle east and their co-conspirators. eu countries must make it a serious criminal offence to travel for the purpose of planning or carrying out a terrorist act. the eu's foreign fighters, who are eu citizens who join and return from isil, pose a major security risk to europe, as at some point some of these people will return to europe with new connections, skills and radical extremist ideas. it is time to stop looking the other way, and these people cannot be allowed to disturb the peace of millions.
in writing. ‒ the report contains many important recommendations. we need to support programs to counter radicalising of youth and to promote tolerance and exchange of best practices in this area. we need to fight hate speech in internet and ensure responsible approach of media to hate speech in their materials and in commentaries posted online. we need also to foster training and cooperation of religious leaders who are moulding public opinion and may prevent incitement to hatred and violent extremism in places of worship.
in writing. - i did. good health is a fundamental right in europe and, despite the significant progress made over the years in the field of occupational health and safety, there are still significant risks to the health and safety of workers. therefore, additional action at eu level is necessary and is the objective of the framework.
mr president, valletta sends a message about how crucial it is to address the root causes of irregular migration. this can be done only by working together with countries of origin within a long-term framework. among five priorities, i would particularly stress the fourth one: to combat and prevent migrant smuggling and human trafficking. it is important because this level has been relatively neglected. there are many signals which show how well the criminal african and cross—mediterranean smuggling business is organised. new criminal groups are not only profiting from people in need but are, at least partially, motivating, inspiring and channelling the migration flows. the huge amount of money extorted from migrants is being directed to finance terrorism and militant groups and to undermine the eu. two more observations: economic cooperation and development aid to african countries must be clearly linked with the respective readmission agreements. one of the most urgent tasks is to decide about those who do not qualify for asylum. secondly, money promised to support our african partners must not be delayed under the guise of commitments. in particular, member states need to contribute decisively and immediately. as i said, valletta was a good start, but the bulk of the work is yet to be done.
blue-card question. – mr mamikins, you were speaking about children in conflict regions and refugee camps. but are we ready to face the challenge of educating refugee children in europe, in european schools? maybe you have some good examples in your own country, in latvia?
in writing. the eu-turkey summit was timely in view of developments on refugees and terrorism as well as the syrian civil war and their implications for both the eu and turkey. turkey is a key player in all these issues and no solution can be found without cooperation between the eu and turkey. it is good that the summit agreed on a joint declaration and a migration action plan, but it is important that this action plan and the plans that have been put in place are also implemented. the eu must find the means for the turkish fund. the situation in refugee camps needs to be improved to reduce the flow of refugees, and this can be done in particular by the eu contributing financially. it is very important to continue accession talks with turkey, but enlargement must be kept separate from the refugee crisis. one cannot depend on the other. the opening of chapters and the work towards visa liberalisation must continue in such a way that all conditions are met.
madam president, the refugee crisis is a great challenge for all european nations. in fact, our values have already been compromised by the clumsy actions of the national authorities of some countries. we should not sacrifice our values in the name of security and public order, because they are actually both based on respect for human dignity and fundamental rights. the problem addressed in the special report by the european ombudsman is a shame for europe. it is intolerable that there is no efficient individual complaints mechanism to deal with the human rights violations during frontex operations. people who are entering europe in search of protection must not be maltreated without an efficient way to demand justice. the refugee crisis is proof of europe’s ability to protect its values and to respect fundamental rights. let us not forget: europe starts at the european borders.
in writing. - i did. the decision establishes a commission to investigate the application of state aid and tax legislation in the member states and harmful corporate tax systems and practices at european and international level.
in writing. - i did. the agreement is an important step forward in the ongoing work to prevent tax fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. - i did. frontex has an important role to play in saving lives, and in doing so, it must ensure that people's fundamental rights are respected. the special report provides, inter alia, for the establishment of an individual complaint mechanism with frontex.
in writing. ‒ it has been two years since the european ombudsman published the special report on frontex, and it is time that the agency took that report seriously and followed its advice. especially now, with the large influx of refugees, it is crucial that human rights are safeguarded. so far, frontex has been avoiding its responsibilities for human rights violations during coordinated operations. through the individual complaints mechanism this gap will be addressed effectively.
in writing. - i did. with almost half of urban transport being carried out by car, congestion is a daily occurrence that in turn pollutes the environment, restricts movement and makes people nervous, and therefore proposals are made to shift urban mobility towards sustainable modes of transport to protect the climate, health and the environment.
in writing. - i did. switzerland's participation in the european asylum support office helps member states to bear the burden of asylum seekers, to exchange the necessary information and to provide assistance in crisis situations.
in writing. - i did. it is a complementary instrument for strengthening economic and cultural relations and for intensifying political dialogue on issues such as human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will boost tourism and help strengthen trade and investment relations. visa liberalisation will make it easier for businesses to travel, facilitate investment and enhance economic links between businesses.
in writing. - i did. the abolition of visa requirements will have a positive impact on investment and the development of the tourism sector, and will allow political dialogue to continue and cooperation to be enhanced.
in writing. - i did. trinidad and tobago is a democratic and stable country and upholds the values and principles of democracy, good governance, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the agreement will boost tourism and help strengthen trade and investment relations.
in writing. - i did. the economy of samoa is one of the most dynamic in the pacific. the visa-free regime is an advantage for the revival of tourism and trade.
in writing. - i did. grenada's economy is heavily dependent on banana and spice exports, but measures have already been taken to restructure and significantly diversify the economy. grenada's agricultural sector has declined sharply, and the service sector, particularly tourism and construction, is growing. visa-free travel facilitates travel for businesses, facilitates investment and enhances economic links between businesses.
in writing. - i did. the agreement provides an opportunity to promote economic relations and tourism. tourism is a particularly important sector for east timor's development and is of interest to eu citizens as tourists and investors.
in writing. - i did. saint lucia has limited resources and a small population, but despite this, it has managed to achieve and even exceed some of the millennium development goals. the country is also increasingly trying to develop the tourism sector, which is gradually replacing the agricultural sector. the agreement thus allows for the strengthening of relations between the parties and the further stimulation of trade.
in writing. - i did. the economic situation of saint vincent and the grenadines has been difficult due to natural disasters and the deterioration of export conditions for the main agricultural product, bananas. this agreement will strengthen relations between the two parties and boost trade.
in writing. - i did. more than 150 000 eu citizens have settled in the uae, the vast majority of whom are taking advantage of the opportunity to participate in economic activities. each year, around 1.6 million europeans visit the uae. visa requirements are one of the biggest obstacles to travel. this also applies to estonian citizens who are also subject to a visa requirement when entering the uae.
in writing. - i did. the memorandum is important to foster more effective cooperation between the two parties.
in writing. - i did. the regulation makes traditional, vat-based and gni-based own resources more accessible, which contributes to a more efficient political management of the eu budget.
in writing. - i did. in finland, a large number of people have been made unemployed by the changes at nokia, and the fund supports them in their return to the labour market.
in writing. - i did. the measures are designed to ensure better long-term conservation and optimum exploitation of fish stocks in the north-east atlantic.
in writing. - i did. with bosnia and herzegovina's eu enlargement, it is important that they continue with reforms. the inclusion of a human rights clause in the trade measures regulation is a positive development.
in writing. - i remained neutral. although this is a good agreement, it has been prepared in the framework of the old europol regulation, which will soon be replaced by a new one. the agreement should therefore be concluded within the framework of the new regulation.
in writing. - i did. europe is stronger both externally and internally by having a single energy market. it is important to diversify energy sources in the eu and to build interconnections. it is necessary to ensure that energy dependence is not used as a tool for political pressure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the energy union report, although some of the provisions raised questions. among such questionable provisions was the torpedoing of the nord stream 2 construction. i believe that the attitude towards nord stream 2 is too politicised and this fact prevents members from taking a deliberate decision. we do not like russia as a gas supplier, but the fact is that there is no alternative to russian gas in europe, in the quantity needed and at a reasonable price, and there will not be any in the near future. it was the continuing misunderstandings with ukraine that were one of the factors that led to the construction of nord stream 1. if short-term policies lead to a gas shortage in europe, prices will start to rise. so these issues should not be taken lightly.
in writing. - i did. achieving the 10% electricity interconnection target and improving the functioning of the internal electricity market is an important objective for a stable, secure, independent, inclusive, transparent and competitive energy system in the eu and electricity interconnection must be a political priority.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the microcredits as alternatives to traditional bank loans which include high transaction costs and extensive bureaucracy, have proven to be an efficient tool in developing countries. this enables the local population to start their own businesses and develop local entrepreneurship, despite of scarce resources. since 2013, also in the eu, the progress microfinance facility has made available eur 205 million to boost development of small businesses. true, the facility does not directly finance micro-enterprises. it rather enables and encourages participating microcredit providers, the intermediaries, to extend and increase their lending capacity, thanks to improved guarantees based on refinancing under the facility. this tool, aimed to encourage emergence of micro-enterprises and self-employment, in particular among people hit by unemployment, carries the valuable message of helping people to help themselves. as a rule, these people would not be able to qualify for traditional banking loans; therefore providing such microcredit options is a must. in order to involve a wider range of people who need microcredits, the rules have to be clear and simple, avoiding as much as possible unnecessary bureaucracy. this applies both for the intermediaries, as well as for the applying micro-businesses and self-employed people.
in writing. - i did. micro-credit enables socially and financially disadvantaged people in europe to create livelihoods by setting up or promoting micro-enterprises.
in writing. - i did. the aim is to ensure maximum sustainable yield and environmental protection. the positive aspect is that fishermen need to be more involved in the processes and that the rules that are being established have been taken into account to make them as simple and understandable as possible.
in writing.– extraordinary migration crisis with no end in sight requires extraordinary measures on european level. i welcome the initiative by the european commission to refurbish frontex into a new agency, the european border and coast guard with a political mandate, technical means and an independent budget to conduct rescue operations, but also assist in sending back people from the borders. frontex with its very limited mandate has been able to meet the challenges of the current situation. without any real political commitment and binding contribution from the member states, the eu will not be able to effectively protect its borders. i am sure that the foreseen permanent staff of around 1000 persons, plus additional 1500 deployable ones and a budget more than double of the one frontex will help to transform frontex into a real border and coast guard agency. i urge the member states to support this plan. although eu is composed of 28 sovereign member states with their national borders, their external borders are in fact the eu common that need to be safeguarded for the common good and security of the eu as a whole.
in writing. the only realistic way to strengthen the protection of the external borders of the european union is to create a single european border guard. against the background of the refugee and security crisis, there is increasing discussion of the need to strengthen controls at the external borders of the european union. however, stronger controls at the external borders do not mean physically preventing people from travelling on poorly equipped boats in the mediterranean, for example, and putting their lives at risk. the only area where european border protection can and must be strengthened is the exchange of information to identify criminals and common procedures in all countries bordering the eu. the creation of a european border guard is therefore the only effective measure to strengthen controls at the eu's external borders.
on behalf of the alde group. the eu and china share the objective of developing relations in an increasing number of areas. the economic and trade aspects of the agreement, which are of course important for the eventual entry into force of the investment protection agreement, are also highlighted. the current overall positive background in europe-china relations, however, gives hope for real improvements in many other areas. china is active on a range of global issues of major importance to europe, such as climate change, the recent paris agreement on climate change and its implementation, as well as nuclear non-proliferation, counter-terrorism, urbanisation and energy security. however, there are areas where more effort is needed to find common ground. i consider it extremely important to increase cooperation on security and defence policy issues, especially in view of the situation in ukraine and the fight against terrorism. we need chinese support in the fight against daesh. china has already suffered the horrors of daesh and it is important that china actively participates in international cooperation to resolve the situation in syria, iraq and libya. the cybersecurity field is not only a growing security issue, but is already a very important area where joint action is needed. china has an important role to play in ensuring security and stability in the asian region, and it is therefore important to reduce tensions in the south china sea and to find peaceful solutions with other countries in the region. china is also one of the few countries that can influence north korea. we certainly hope that china will do this more actively than before and that this will of course lead to a broader human rights issue in china as well. the situation of ethnic minorities in china, as well as restrictions on freedom of expression, continues to be a cause for concern.
mr president, the eu as a value-based entity is committed to promoting universal human rights and freedoms – even in our relations with big partners – in parallel to advancing our strategic and economic interests. there are three points of concern: first, the imminent adoption of a new law on foreign ngos that would severely restrict the activities of normal civil society; second, a new law on cyber-security that would institutionalise government censorship of cyberspace; third, the fact that tibetans and uighurs remain endangered minorities. both groups need credible guarantees for the preservation of their language, religion and identity. the terrible fact that 140 tibetans have already committed self-immolation is an indication of a dramatic national desperation, which is caused by the lack of meaningful dialogue. we should convince beijing to renew dialogue with the dalai lama.
member of the commission. i would like to thank the members of this parliament very warmly - i still feel a bit like a colleague in the european parliament - for their support for this proposal. i hope we can work well together and that we can complete this package quickly. the sooner it can be transposed into law, the sooner it can also enter into force. we have been reminded that we ourselves must ensure sufficient accessibility in our own instruments and in our own data which we disseminate from the european commission. we must indeed watch over that. when i launched this package, i really made sure that all the materials that were available should also be accessible to people with disabilities and that at least we meet all of our own requirements there. i will also make it clear to the commission that there is room for improvement and that we must work on that. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of radioactive substances. there are indeed always costs if conditions have to be met, but we have designed our system so that these costs can be as low as possible, that there is a lot of scope for choice in the companies and that the costs are low, also because we are going for a design for all. the concept of a product or service must be seen in terms of the service or product. it should also only be applied to new services and to new products that are launched. it's not about transforming existing things. because it's the transformation that often costs money. if they are taken into account from the outset, they are often marginal costs. and if the cost is too high, if it is really too burdensome, if the cost or the demand we make of accessibility is such that this would mean that a product that one intends to produce would have to be completely changed or would have to become something completely different, then a company that still declares, makes a statement and yet launches its product as it wishes. but it is first of all trying to ensure that there is compliance and that is ultimately what we are aiming for. so the cost to industry has been taken into account. because what we want is for products and services to meet as many requirements as possible. that there's accessibility on the field. if everyone is behind it and can do it at a low cost, then we have the best chance of success. as regards the functional requirements we are imposing on the websites of public services, of public authorities, i can say that the pending directive, which is to be negotiated and on which the trialogue is to start, has a different scope in terms of its scope. we're talking about private web sites, you know? that's about government websites. however, the functional requirements are the same. the marrakesh agreement provides for an exception to copyright for books which have been printed and which are subsequently to be made in braille or other forms. well, what we're looking at here is: this is not about printed books, but about e-books, which you can download from a website. we ask that they be accessible to people who cannot read but who can access them through other senses. we ask that they be made accessible, so that blind or partially sighted people can consult these books. here it is again: if you take care of that when you design an e-book, it's a small cost of adaptation that makes it more accessible, more accessible to a lot of people, and that's what we're ultimately aiming for. thank you for your support. i look forward to a good cooperation and thank you for the time i had to reply.
in writing.– after many, many years of waiting, the accessibility act has finally made it. it has been five years since the disability strategy was announced and the process should not have been so needlessly drawn-out. the commission will find itself accountable not only to the 80 million europeans with disabilities but also to the elderly, who will benefit greatly from the removal of totally unnecessary barriers, particularly those regarding web-accessibility – and with europe’s increasingly grey population, that’s a lot of people. large incumbents such as microsoft should have the responsibility of promoting free and open standards because when it comes to accessibility for visually impaired people, interoperability is of crucial importance. so before we become complacent, there is still a long way to go before the eu comes fully in line with the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities but this is a step in the right direction.
mr president, i have three points. firstly, i would like to thank the commission for its bold border guard initiative and i insist that the member states overcome their differences and approve it, this weekend if possible. secondly, the syrian crisis should not take attention away from ukraine and the continuing russian aggression. let us remember that mr ‘brute’ putin has broken the system of international security, continues to break it and views the west, not as his partner, but as his adversary. therefore any hesitations about the continuation of sanctions would undermine the very political and moral credibility of the eu. mr putin is, unfortunately, not part of the solution. he remains part of the problem. thirdly, i would like nord stream 2 to be assessed by the council on the basis of commissioner arias cañete’s arguments from october. it is clearly not a private deal but a political project to weaken ukraine and deepen dependence on russian gas for all of us. finally may i wish both the commission and the council an invigorating christmas spirit of hope, persistence and, last but not least, satisfaction.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the european parliament and the council have agreed on a new regulation for europol. the operational and strategic cooperation agreement between bosnia and herzegovina and europol should be concluded once the new europol regulation on the international agreement-making process has entered into force. this would provide greater protection for the personal data of european citizens and a more secure framework for cooperation between the two parties.
in writing. - i did. ireland wishes to support the return to the labour market of the redundant employees of pwa international ltd.
in writing. - no, he didn't. the objection to the eu list of invasive alien species of concern is not justified as the current list is based on scientific research.
in writing. - i did. tax fraud and tax evasion cause great damage to the eu and its member states and create inequalities between companies. to stop it, concerted action and certain common measures are needed in the eu.
in writing. - i did. eu-china relations and their promotion and the finding of common ground on various issues are of great importance. china has an important role to play in the promotion of the world economy and in the fields of energy and climate, but also in foreign and security policy. china could become more involved in the fight against daesh, avoid tensions in the south china sea and help resolve the situation in north korea.
in writing. - i did. the humanitarian aid environment has changed significantly, in particular in terms of the number, scale and duration of humanitarian emergencies, arising from both military conflicts and natural disasters, and exacerbated by global trends such as climate change. the eu has established good practices in humanitarian aid as a leading donor, but it needs to move dynamically with the times and change its strategies accordingly. the speed of humanitarian aid is crucial. it is also important that the member states actually make the financial contributions they have committed to make.
in writing. - i remained neutral. the eu needs flexible and responsive trade defence measures to cope with new global industrial scenarios, where decisions need to be taken more quickly to respond to rapid changes in the markets for materials, products, information and services. however, this proposal does not ensure sufficient flexibility and competitiveness.
in writing. - i did. hungary has faced many problems, such as the migrant crisis and economic difficulties. however, it is important that fundamental human rights, the rule of law and the fundamental values of democracy are respected in hungary.
mr president, our debate today is very timely and necessary, considering that we are continually witnessing human rights violations, impunity and increased attacks against independent civil society, especially human rights defenders. the situation of human rights defenders worldwide is of great concern and i believe that stronger eu action is urgently required. although the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy is big on words, the eu has to step up its efforts if it wants to live up fully to its pledge of being an advocate of liberty, democracy and human rights all over the world. the deliberate targeting of human rights defenders is not acceptable. there are just too many cases to be naming just one or two. there should not be any targeting of people who stand up for the rights of others; not a single case. the eu must be at the forefront of the protection and support of human rights defenders who are silenced, attacked, harassed, put behind bars and murdered. human rights must have an important place in the upcoming eu global strategy.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr valero, for his constructive cooperation and good will. i am sure this report is needed, especially in the new security situation. we are treading in an important and sensitive area. therefore, we have to be balanced and realistic. arms by themselves cannot be considered good or evil. it is up to their users. so the important thing is to prevent arms from reaching evil or irresponsible hands. the eu has a good basis for preventing this from happening: the common position, which is unique in the world, and its eight criteria. i appreciate that we were able to balance the report by pointing out that arms are needed for self—defence, as defined by article 51 of the un charter. it is important to make sure that nations facing armed aggression, like the ukrainians or the kurdish peshmerga, should be able to have defensive arms. it is also positive that the role of the eu defence industry has been highlighted. we need the industry in question for our security, but also for the development of modern technological bases in europe. the epp stands strongly behind the common position. the latter needs, first of all, efficient implementation, not necessarily an extension of its powers. more transparency and information sharing, for example about persons whose licences for exporting arms have been denied, is important. problems for the epp emerge mainly from attempts to cross into the subsidiarity domain, because national defence remains in the competence of the member states. the epp has identified four proposals which, in our opinion, exceed the eu competences, for example the proposed mechanism of sanctions for violations of the eight criteria. therefore, if our four key points are not supported, the epp will remain neutral.
in writing. - i did. the commission aims to investigate alleged breaches of union law and maladministration in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector.
in writing. - i did. the protocol is necessary to take account of the accession of croatia to the eu.
in writing. - i did. the agreement strengthens economic and political relations between the eu and vietnam, including by addressing concerns such as respect for human rights and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - i did. the agreement strengthens economic and political relations between the eu and vietnam, including by addressing concerns such as respect for human rights and the fight against terrorism.
in writing. - i did. while the right steps have been taken to strengthen economic and monetary union, further efforts are needed to address the current shortcomings in the institutional framework of the euro area.
in writing. - i did. the eu must do more to protect human rights defenders. human rights must be at the heart of the eu's global strategy and the eu's strategic framework for human rights and democracy must be put into practice.
in writing. ‒ the resolution includes numerous rightful statements and assessments. regretfully, challenging issues and serious problems in some (partner) countries are overlooked for political reasons, such as the death penalty and maltreatment in the us and the gulf countries, the rapid deterioration of the human rights situation in ukraine, the routine abuse of surveillance power by special services and the preservation and widening of the problem of mass statelessness, etc.
in writing. - i did. to prevent such horrors from happening again, we must work consistently. in the case of bosnia and herzegovina, the prospect of eu accession could motivate it to undertake the necessary reforms, not only because of eu accession but also because it helps to unite society internally and to develop further.
in writing. – as shadow rapporteur of the epp group, i decided to abstain in the final vote of this report. we had achieved good results in balancing the report. this includes mentioning the right to self-defence according to article 51 of the un charter. every state should be able to defend itself from aggression: thus delivering arms to ukraine and to the kurdish peshmerga is highly important. the report also highlights the positive role of the defence industry. the latter is needed to bolster european security, but also for development of the european technological and industrial base. the eu common position on arms exports has worked well. the implementation of the eight criteria needs to be even more improved, especially concerning the timely and efficient exchange of information between the member states when denying or revoking licences. the main reason for abstaining in the final vote lies in the paragraphs that go beyond the competences of the common position – demanding sanctions when member states do not apply the cp, or demands to create a new oversight authority. although a binding agreement, the final decision lies still in the hands of the member states and such european mechanisms are beyond the competences of the ep and the eu.
in writing. - i did. in a context of increasing numbers of eu weapons falling into the hands of terrorists outside the eu, there is a need for greater control of the movement of weapons, both by member states and at eu level. the controls must be more effective, the rules more understandable and we must not forget that the production and sale of arms in europe is aimed at increasing security and self-defence.
in writing. - i did. the issue of patenting products related to biological plant products needs to be interpreted in more detail.
in writing. - i did. burundi is in a deep crisis which requires the cooperation of the african union, the un and the eu to overcome. at the same time, we must monitor the deepening humanitarian crisis and be prepared to respond adequately.
in writing. - i did. africa's oldest national park is a threatened world heritage site, where mass poaching and environmental abuse are common. the eu must also act to improve the situation.
