mr president, as you have mentioned, our group proposes that we have a statement by the high representative, preferably with a resolution, on the amazing, incredible, horrendous atrocities that have been conducted by the terrorist islamist group, boko haram, in northern nigeria. a whole town with its 2 000 people seems to have been wiped out, and this seems to be the most extensive and horrendous atrocity that this group has so far perpetrated. so i would ask that this house agree that we have it on our agenda on wednesday.
mr president, i think this is a very good solution. i think it is our duty to discuss it this week.
for the alde group mr president, parliament is now deciding whether eu member states should have more freedom to decide on the cultivation of gm crops on their territory. the ministers have already decided on this matter and it is now parliament's turn. this means that an article is added to the former directive to give member states the right to justify a national or regional ban on the cultivation of gmos. this is a matter for the member states to decide. genetically modified product is emotionally stimulating. it is very important that the european food safety authority investigates these matters closely. it is important that the authorizations issued by this agency are really well justified, so that the member states can decide for themselves and independently what to do after the authorization. in europe, asia and many other countries, genetically modified products are treated much more freely than here in europe. we have been reluctant to do this, and in fact i think it is the right policy. there's still a lot to explore, a lot of things that we don't know today. both researchers and policy makers have a responsibility to ensure that products which are later found to be harmful are not authorised.
in writing. the new legal framework is an important tool for those member states wishing to keep gmos out of their fields. however, the legislation still contains weaknesses which threaten genuine freedom of choice. firstly, the new law is based on eu internal market legislation. it should have been incorporated into environmental legislation, as gm crops and products continue to pose potential risks to the environment and public health. the principle of free movement within the internal market can prove to be a powerful weapon in court for a company wishing to extend its gm potato production to all member states. the legislation also lacked measures to define actions in situations where gm material is unintentionally present in areas where it is not wanted. this is a common problem in border areas, for example. in the present case, for example, a portuguese organic farmer would have to pay an economic loss because the gm material brought across the border by pollination would make his crop unmarketable. the eu must establish a system that is binding on all states and operators, and that respects the 'polluter pays' principle. we do not yet know enough about the long-term and multiple effects of genetic modification, so it is better to follow the precautionary principle before making irreversible decisions. no more genetic engineering is needed to feed the world's population. we already produce food for 14 billion people. however, nearly half of all food is wasted, and it is more important to focus on finding solutions to distribute food produced more equitably among the world's population.
mr etheridge, my aim is to ensure equal treatment, so if somebody has already spoken, that is taken into account when distributing blue-card time. we try to have equal treatment for all members in this house. (end of catch-the-eye procedure)
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
madam president, the root cause behind these incidents is the ambivalent – one might say schizophrenic – immigration policy of the european union and its member states. it is difficult and dangerous to come here, but once you do, it is very likely that you will obtain a residence permit, be entitled to family reunification and so on, whether you are fleeing from persecution or just from poverty. as long as this continues to be the case, there will be more and more people trying to get to europe. as long as there is demand for sea transport, there will be criminal organisations satisfying that demand. so we will have more and more of these tragedies. the problems that create migration cannot be solved by migration or new legal rules; neither can europe indefinitely afford this kind of immigration.
in writing. the commission is quite right to draw attention to the number of women on company boards across europe. it is clear that various measures, such as quotas and internal guidelines, have led to an increase in the number of women on company boards. in countries that have legislated for a quota of women on company boards, there has been an increase of up to a fifth in the number of women on company boards over the last 10 years. however, challenges remain. it is important for each member state to remove the legislative barriers which hinder the advancement of women in the workforce and in management positions. one of these concerns parental leave: the distribution of parental leave between men and women must be promoted. culture is changing slowly, so it is necessary to monitor closely the growth of the proportion of women on company boards and to encourage member states to move forward.
mr president, madam prime minister, the programme for the latvian presidency is indeed very good, as has been said here. it is important that you highlight the competitiveness of the economy, which is the basis for growth and employment. it is also the basis of the whole european community and its activities. the internal energy market is a good priority. they contribute to the aforementioned competitiveness and to our self-sufficiency and security. the digital single market is also a good objective. this is one of the key aspects of the internal market which is still very much in the pipeline. the development of the digital single market is precisely the way to create the aforementioned competitiveness and growth in europe. however, madam prime minister, as a member of the group of the european people's party, i note that the most important point was made at the end of your speech. europe must be brought closer to its citizens. this will be done by focusing on fewer regulatory issues than in the past, by dismantling unnecessary existing regulation and by respecting the democratic and independent nature of the member states. this will help the eu to deliver and improve citizens' trust in the european union.
mr president, madam president, i too would like to recall how, in the late 1980s, a small, bright star lit up on my map. it was latvia. the human desire for freedom lit this little star on my map. your presidency will coincide with the important reform of the eastern partnership and the rio summit. i would like to hear a little more about how you intend to resolve this situation where we have a lot of problems. first of all, i would like to point out that our eastern partners have made very difficult choices in their approach to the european union. at the same time, they have lost very important trade relations with russia, because russia has punished these countries for wanting to join the european union. how are we going to ensure that the accession of these countries to the european union's neighbourhood and the rapprochement with the european union do not punish them? secondly, how do we keep all six eastern partnership countries together, when three of them have concluded association agreements, so that we do not divide the eastern partnership into two groups? thirdly, how do we restore respect for the principles of the helsinki final act, which russia is now flagrantly violating? i believe that latvia, as the presidency, has a very important role to play in these discussions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, last year marked the return of geopolitics and history to europe, if they had been lost. the last week in paris was a tragic reminder of the threat of terrorism and extremism. in this crisis, unity is the european union's greatest strength. it cannot rely solely on the objectives set out in the treaties, but is a precondition for success. but we must also be able to implement our security strategy effectively, and your work, vice-president mogherini, is key to this. i urge you to make more effective use of all the commission's resources - from trade policy to development, from humanitarian aid to internal security. we must also, in the end, - taking the lessons of paris - decisively improve the cooperation and exchange of information between the intelligence services of the member states so that there are no more innocent victims.
the question of the blue card. it is very important to increase intelligence cooperation and it is very important to prepare for new terrorist attacks, but the most important thing is to prepare for the causes of terrorism. at least one of the excuses for many of those who practice terrorism is the middle east conflict, which you have intervened in. do you think that the palestinian question is the one that needs to be resolved in order to put an end to terrorism?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the least we can do this week, while we are mourning the victims of the cruel attack by terrorists against the french satirical paper, is to discuss this issue in our plenary, and i join those who deplore the lack of international attention that has been given to the case of the razing to the ground of the whole town of baga in northern nigeria. the minimum here is to do our best to have an independent international investigation of what actually happened because, even if the figures vary quite a lot, we can fear that up to 2 000 people have lost their lives in this indiscriminate attack. let me point out that the nigerian army fled when this attack happened. nigeria is a rich country but, of course, we need to support their fight against terrorism. one means of doing that is by supporting the economic community of west african states (ecowas), the cooperation organisation of west african countries which has reiterated its commitment to work with the government of nigeria, the ecowas member states and all stakeholders so that terrorist attacks of this kind come to an end. let me also, at the end, point out that we still do not know what has happened to the kidnapped chibok girls so, just as we are saying ‘je suis charlie’, we could say that ‘we are the chibok girls’. and we need to get them back.
mr president, the speech by the high representative, mrs mogherini, was really interesting in its russia note, which clearly outlines a new opening. i am reminded of the new eastern policy of willy brandt and egon bahr, because something new is needed. it is clear that the elections in ukraine last october were democratic. it is on the basis of these democratic elections that it is possible to build a society of freedom and justice, with human rights. i believe that the european union and all of us are ready to support ukraine once the ukrainian government has presented a concrete timetable for reform and so on. it is possible to build a whole new policy from this. i am convinced that russia, under the leadership of the high representative mogherini, can be influenced to make a commitment to a consensus.
in writing. mr president, the commission's work programme for 2015 has a strong focus on growth, competitiveness and investment all very important issues also for job creation. the aim is to reduce any excesses and the objective of better regulation is now also taken seriously. i think it is a good and correct move that the commission does not automatically continue the unfinished legislative projects started by its predecessor, but has proposed some 80 acts, regulations or directives to be withdrawn or reworked. i'm very supportive of this line. one of the key points in the investment programme is precisely the rationalization of regulation and the creation of political predictability for the territory of the european union. this is essential to encourage companies to invest in our region. only then can we get europe back on its feet.
in writing. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the acceleration of investment in europe is essential for the future. the programme prepared by vice-president katainen is an important opening to encourage the private sector to get involved. i fully understand the concern that has been raised in parliament about the use of funding from the horizon 2020 research programme for the investment programme. however, it should be noted that this can also be a significant opportunity to increase funding for research and development. the key now is to ensure that any funding that may be diverted from horizon 2020 to the investment programme is directed specifically to research and development projects and not to pipelines, networks and roads, although infrastructure is also needed. for example, at the interface between university research and business, there is a lot of promising product development and new growth areas that should be funded.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the message of the lima climate summit was clear to us. we need a real solution in paris. we need a climate agreement. peru, the host of the climate summit, is the fourth most affected country in the world. visiting peru was an eye-opener. the changes are visible in everything, food production the fastest of all. there will be a fight for clean drinking water and edible food. the poorest people everywhere suffer the most, and the poorest of the poor are women. cold, heat, drought, famine, and erosion are increasing all the time. i brought to all of us in peru the sense of injustice that developing countries rightly feel. it should be a wake-up call for us to take action in europe. whose standard of living is one of the causes of climate change? who, the poorest, will suffer the greatest consequences? so, responding to climate change is also about solidarity and humanity. we in europe must revise our own objectives to make them more ambitious, to move towards a fully renewable energy system. climate finance must be steadily increased and the economic crisis cannot be an obstacle to this. rational solutions are more of an opportunity than an obstacle.
i have to say that this is not question time with the commission and the commission also has its freedom of expression. so we will continue. olen vastaanottanut neljä päätöslauselmaesitystä. keskustelu on päättynyt. äänestys toimitetaan keskiviikkona 11. helmikuuta 2015. kirjalliset lausumat (työjärjestyksen 162 artikla)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the indication of the country of origin of meat used as an ingredient in processed foods (o-000091/2014 - b8-0101/2015) (o-000091/2014 - b8-0101/2015) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, giovanni la vian (2014/2875) (rsp)).
for the alde group mr president, the point at issue is that the environment committee of this parliament proposes that the commission should examine the effects of the use of the word 'origin' in the labelling of meat. does it have cost effects and what are they and what other effects do they have? studies show that a large proportion of consumers want to know the origin of meat. not all, but many people want to know how far a chicken or other meat has traveled before it reaches their plate. the estimates of these costs are given here and in the commission's papers. here, they estimated that the price of a kilo of meat would go up by 50% if the origin mark came in. another says it's less than an inch per pound of flesh. if the fork is this big, then i think it is very reasonable that parliament agrees with the commission's view that these cost effects should be examined. i am sure that nobody wants mandatory labelling if the price of meat goes up by 50%. but i personally cannot believe that claim, and here i can appeal to finnish experience. we have food companies, companies that mark the origin and very precisely. and it's not a price issue, at least not according to the calculations of these companies. it increases consumer confidence and may even lead to an increase in meat consumption. but that is not the point here, the point is that the consumer has the right to know what he is putting in his mouth. it is therefore important that the commission now be able to examine the economic and other implications of both voluntary and compulsory origin labelling.
in writing. the european parliament decided on wednesday to ask the commission to submit a proposal to mark the country of origin of meat on meat products such as sausages and meatballs. at present, eu legislation requires that the country of origin of beef be indicated in respect of the place of birth, rearing and slaughter. in the spring, a regulation will come into force extending the labelling to meat from other animals. meat products are currently exempt from the labelling requirement. traceability of the origin of foodstuffs increases transparency and thus consumer confidence in the products, as well as the possibilities for monitoring the quality of the products and animal welfare. we can't have another horse meat scandal. the country of origin is also one of the most important pieces of information consumers want to know about the meat product they are buying.
the question of the blue card. the previous speaker strongly criticised the european union for doing nothing to combat youth unemployment. we are dealing with the youth guarantee, which is a citizens' initiative. in fact, this is not the commission's initiative in the first place, but it is the initiative of the citizens, the initiative of the young people of austria and finland, and now the commission has rightly reacted to this initiative. i would like to ask how you can blame the european union when the initiative is being discussed.
mr president, there is one more point i would like to make. as great an idea as this is, we must support it. i also thank the commissioner for taking it forward. but we must also be careful not to put young people on a training course. i have met many people in their thirties with two degrees who are in a constant cycle of training. this leads to the idea that maria joão rodrigues mentioned, namely that the investment programme and all eu measures must also contribute to improving competitiveness and creating jobs. the european union has been criticized many times for not taking forward citizens' initiatives, and good ideas seem to be drowning in the commission's unfounded bureaucracy, and there is reason for this criticism. but this idea really came from the young people themselves, and it would be good if the commissioner could say this once, that the idea originally came from the young people themselves.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a truly unified and common european transport area requires genuinely common and uniform rules of the game. the proposal for a directive under consideration is precisely about this, the creation of common rules of the game. this ensures that the rules apply equally to everyone in the union and that there is a fear of consequences for infringements, whether you are moving on your own or on the property of a neighbour in the union. so this is about the fairness of citizens and the equal treatment of each other before the law. i would like to thank both the commission and the council for dealing with this matter without delay, and at the same time i hope that parliament will accept the proposal. this will ensure that a clear situation is maintained and that we can continue to move towards a single european transport culture. the directive covers all the most deadly traffic offences in europe, including the most important ones, speeding, neglect of safety and driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs. the commission has previously estimated that 350 to 400 road deaths could be avoided annually if the regulation were effectively implemented. the use of a mobile phone or other means of communication while driving, known as 'distracted driving', is also covered by the monitoring and exchange of information. improving road safety is a collective effort and it requires all of us.
mr president, despite some voices on the far left and far right, it must be said that the european parliament strongly supports the european union's united line, which will maintain sanctions as long as the war continues. and we have had proposals to extend sanctions to the swift system, for example, if the situation continues to escalate despite the minsk talks tomorrow. but, mr president, i would like to draw your attention to the importance of strengthening the osce special mission in ukraine, because we know that weapons are coming into ukraine from russia through this 400 km long open border. what more can we do to ensure that the olaf has the resources, the equipment and the staff to do its job? and how do we get russia to agree to this border being patrolled from the ukrainian side as well?
the rapporteur. - mr president, we are dealing here with eight reports on the accession of eight different states to the hague convention on child abduction, whose full title is 'the hague convention on international child abduction'. these countries are albania, andorra, armenia, gabon, morocco, russia, the seychelles and singapore. to date, a total of 93 countries have acceded to the convention, including all eu member states. the entry into force of the hague convention on child abduction between eu member states and the new contracting states has been delayed. the case was pending the ruling of the court of justice of the eu on whether the eu or the member states had the power to accept the accession of the new contracting states. in october 2014, the court ruled on the case. acceptance of the accession of a third state to the hague convention in question falls within the exclusive competence of the european union. kidnapping is a violation of human rights. the un convention on the rights of the child guarantees that a child has the fundamental right to live with his or her parents if it is good and safe for him or her to be with them. a child who lives apart from his or her parents has the right to meet and have regular contact with both parents. the meeting may be prevented only if it is against the child's interests. what, then, are the legal means for solving child abductions? the hague convention on child abduction seeks to implement these rights of the child. it contains procedures to be followed in resolving cases of child abduction between states parties. today, more and more couples are from different countries. thus, more and more children have roots in more than one country. then problems may arise if the couple separates. unfortunately, this can increasingly result in the child being taken to the other parent's country of origin instead of the parents agreeing on custody. the number of such international child abductions has been steadily increasing. statistics show that there are about 1 000 cases per year in the eu, if not more. the hague convention on child abduction is therefore important because it provides the legal and operational means to resolve child abduction cases. the accession of new states to the convention on the abduction of children means that there will be permanent arrangements between eu member states and these third countries to resolve cases of child abduction. the main principle of the convention is that the competent authorities of the states shall take immediate action to return the child to his or her state of residence. only after the child is in his or her country of residence does the court proceed to deal with parental disputes, such as custody. the convention on the abduction of children is thus also a tool to prevent cross-border abductions. but ratification alone is not going to solve child abductions. however, accession or formal ratification alone will not settle the matter. each state party shall designate a central authority to coordinate the resolution of child abduction cases in the state party and to direct the implementation of the convention. the effective implementation of the agreement requires the development of a central authority and close cooperation between the authorities of the countries. but the eu can play a part in shaping how cooperation on these issues takes off. the commission could help to identify whether there is a need for development in the legislation or in the operation and capacity of the new state which has joined the agreement. the specific needs of each country must be taken into account, especially in the case of so-called developing countries. finally, i would like to point out that the entry into force of the convention on the abduction of children between the eu and the new contracting states requires that, after the european parliament, the council of ministers approves the accession of the new states and that the member states give their consent to this. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the reports tomorrow so that this agreement, which will concretely improve children's rights, can also be brought into force as soon as possible between the eu and the eight new contracting states.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is very gratifying to note that we will probably adopt these eight identical reports tomorrow by almost unanimous vote, after which we expect the council to act swiftly on its part, and we trust commissioner jourová that this will indeed happen. a few notes on the debate: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament. but let us consider the matter in the light of the fact that the commission is also much better placed to ensure that the legislation and operational capacity of the new state which has acceded to the convention is actually monitored on behalf of the member states before the accession is approved. so i think that although these acceding states may have a capacity gap and may sometimes lack a little political will, the very fact that this issue is now an unquestionable eu competence also gives the commission an obligation to monitor how these other states are doing in this area. honeyball is no longer here, but we have just had a discussion with him about the fact that it is not so simple that when we here simply give our approval to these accessions on our own behalf, then things will move forward. it is indeed true - as the members have said here - that members of this house and parliament must monitor how third countries are able to act properly in practice on this important issue, which often shocks people's daily lives, namely child abduction. finally, i would like to thank mr mcguinness for bringing a practical voice to this debate. he told me what the difficulties are, that the agreement is one thing and the other thing is how it works in practice. then let's focus on that in the future.
the question of the blue card. you used the right word: humanitarian crisis. it has been used a little bit in this room today, when we have been talking about greece. there is indeed a humanitarian crisis there and i am sure that a solution will be found at the council meeting tomorrow. i therefore ask you: is it not wrong and unreasonable that, at this very moment, when a compromise is being negotiated, you are bringing up these old ghosts and talking about wartime debts and so on? shouldn't this be the spirit of compromise to end the humanitarian crisis?
in writing. - i voted in favour of a special committee to ensure investigation of tax dumping of multinational corporations. however, i denounce the decision by the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, to not put a revised mandate for an inquiry committee to the vote, even though that mandate is now the basis for the special committee. only an inquiry committee would have granted the right to examine classified documents by eu member states and hence reflect also on the role of some key eu political figures such as the president of the eu commission, jean-claude juncker, in aiding tax evasion and tax avoidance, which deprives eu citizens yearly of nearly 1 trillion euros. such a mandate would have met all the requirements for an inquiry committee as the eu commission did not act in accordance with eu directives which request eu member states to inform each other about tax rulings. however, the scope of any investigation must go beyond state aid rules since tax rulings are perfectly compatible with competition law if they do not discriminate against single companies. i will evaluate all means to challenge the decision of mr schulz legally.
in writing. the commission communication on the energy union is timely and addresses a very important issue. the situation is not changed by the fact that at present the price of energy is low and many incentives for renewable energy production are not working well. the problems described by the commission are real and serious. the energy union is an opportunity to get more out of the very different energy production systems of the member states, to correct the problems of the emissions trading system, to curb inefficiencies and increase energy efficiency, to reduce europeans' dependence on imported energy and, in general, to coordinate eu energy and climate policy in a coherent way. the background ideas are very beautiful. but it is only by taking concrete action that we can see what is actually happening. energy production and use are very sensitive issues at national level and a declaration alone cannot change the attitude of the member states. for example, the measures needed to reduce energy dependence on imports vary widely from one member state to another. in some member states, renewable energy production is already widely available and well regulated. others will be tied to imported energy for a long time. the success of the energy union in the coming years will be measured by the quantity and quality of concrete actions taken. the implementation of big ideas across the union always requires a high degree of confidence that all parties will benefit equally. if there is no trust, or if it cannot be built, the whole energy union will vanish into thin air.
the question of the blue card. mr president, i speak finnish. i'm sure we have something in common, you wanting to do work against violence, and that's a good thing. i personally see a huge importance in women's bodies, their bodies, their decision-making power, and thus also in properly performed abortions. the istanbul agreement must be part of european values, but i am trying to start from the common ground that we could find, so how do you see men's participation in childcare? you wanted to support families, and right now, only one man in a hundred is involved in caring for the children of a family on parental leave.
mr president, i would like to thank mr tarabella for his excellent work and for the important points he has raised. in fact, it is regrettable that we are still having to debate in 2015 why equality has not been achieved. so this conversation is once a year. the report raises important issues, and i will mention three of them. equal pay is still not achieved, but the pen sion gap between men and women is even worse, because there is no pension for maternity leave. this results in pensions for women in europe being almost 40% lower than for men. this is a clear indication that equality has not been achieved. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. thank you, sir.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr leichtfried, for his excellent and professional work on this long-term project, which has been challenging in many ways. we can look forward to the result as a good compromise, especially in view of the range of wishes and demands we have heard from the member states and the various stakeholders. it is good to bear in mind that the fact that this proposal is making europe's heavy vehicles more energy efficient, safer and, above all, also less polluting, is easily lost in the many technical details. the introduction of new technology always involves costs, which must be acknowledged and may also indirectly affect the competitive position of transport modes and the division of labour. during the preparation it became very clear that the so-called mega-marshes are causing fears, and at least personally i was sometimes very worried about whether we could continue to maintain the exceptions that allow us to maintain logistical cost-efficiency and the possibility of transport and production in our north, in northern europe. the transport flows and infrastructure in our country differ considerably from the congested traffic in central europe, and it is therefore extremely important that the solutions which have proved to be regionally sound can be used in the future, as is the case now in finland and sweden, for example, and in the transport between us. large and modern units are the best way to ensure energy and cost efficiency in transport. if anyone does not believe this, they can certainly come to both finland and sweden to look into the matter.
i would also like to thank the negotiators, mr president, for agreeing and for taking this matter forward. each member state has its own tradition of the size of trucks used in transport, and as long as the transport is within the member state, it does not cause problems, but when we talk about international transport, we aim to form a european community, a common area where goods, services, people, capital can move across borders. and then it is also important that we have some common rules on the size of trucks that can be transported across borders. it was important for us from the finnish point of view that it should continue to be possible to cross the border on these large trucks, once both member states have accepted these large trucks. it has been pointed out here on many occasions that we use a lot of these large lorries in traffic between finland and sweden, we have good experience of this, we have long distances in the north, and, for example, from the point of view of road safety, there have been no problems such as those to which many of the representatives here referred. these large trucks are completely safe and they are also environmentally friendly, because otherwise we would have to take a lot more trucks on the road. it is therefore very important that the transport of these large lorries between these countries, where both countries have accepted these lorries, can continue. it's important for business and the environment.
mr president, i would like to thank mr lamassoure for his excellent report. long-term european investment funds can play an important role in financing infrastructure, growth and also in the access to finance for smes. however, i personally consider that this type of investment fund activity is in any event complementary, as if it were a form of lending, compared to bank financing, which is still the main way for companies to obtain financing. it is therefore important for us in the european parliament to also assess the level of banking regulation. in recent years, many new obligations have been imposed on banks in this area, but it is necessary to ensure that the banking sector in europe is able to operate in a sound manner. at present, the availability of finance for smes is also at a reasonable level. over 70% of all euro area loan applications are approved. the interest rate is 2.78% on average, so in that sense the banking sector is working, but now more attention must be paid to ensuring that we in the european parliament also ensure that europe is an attractive investment destination. and we can do something about it, above all through better regulation by making europe a destination where companies and innovative people want to come and invest in the future here.
in writing. ‒ the polish application complies with the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it affects 615 unemployed people and the eu's share of the world chemicals market has fallen sharply. the decrease in market share was particularly strong for zachem's plants in the kujawsko-pomorski region. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the german application complies with the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund. it affects 657 unemployed. the eu market share of the world solar panel market fell dramatically in 2011 as a result of the dumping practices of the chinese suppliers, by as much as 40%. the commission also found that the price of the product concerned was lower than the price of the like product sold on the domestic market. the situation of aleo solar is strongly affected by the regions of prenzlauer land and brandenburg, which have the highest unemployment rates in germany. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the belgian application for the unemployment effects of duferco and nlmk complies with the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this affects a total of 708 unemployed. the eu's share of the world market in steel production has fallen sharply. between 2006 and 2011, the eu27 share decreased by 14,1%, while global production increased by 21,6%. the development has a strong impact in the hainaut region of belgium, where employment has traditionally been concentrated in heavy industry and the public sector. further complicating the situation is the fact that 51 percent of the unemployed have only a basic education. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the belgian application for arcelormittal, which operates in the metal industry, meets the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund. this is a total of 1 285 unemployed. i am particularly pleased that this report stresses the importance of an effective and coordinated approach at eu level, particularly in relation to measures to increase the competitiveness of the eu area. it is particularly important to invest in innovation, which is likely to increase competitiveness. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the belgian application for caterpillar's unemployment effects in the machinery industry meets the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the application concerns 663 unemployed persons. the report shows that the reductions in the workforce at caterpillar are due to the effects of globalisation on the profitability of the machinery industry in europe. it is more profitable to manufacture parts in asia and import them from asia than to manufacture them in the eu. the report says that the situation is complicated by the fact that 59 percent of the unemployed have only a basic education. in addition, 43% have been unemployed for more than two years and almost a fifth are in the 55-64 age group, increasing their risk of being permanently excluded from the labour market. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the belgian application for unemployment effects from saint-gobain sekurit, a manufacturer of car windscreens and window glass, complies with the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund under article 2c of the regulation on the globalisation adjustment fund, even though the application only concerns a total of 257 unemployed persons, because of the serious impact on local employment and the economy. the sector represented by saint-gobain sekurit has been subject to a change in the structure of the market due to a number of different reasons. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution. however, i voted against paragraph 9 and paragraph 1 because the european parliament has no competence to take a position on taxation in the member states.
in writing. ‒ it is great to see that equality between women and men has progressed in europe. but change is very slow. although the majority of higher education graduates in the eu are already women, at the current rate of progress, the employment rate of 75% for women will not be reached until 2038. equal pay may take another 70 years forecast to be achieved in 2084. this is not an acceptable change of pace. we need to speed it up. member states must work with determination to ensure that fathers take more responsibility for childcare and that women's employment is promoted. we can't afford to lose the skills and the work of women.
madam president, first of all let me warmly welcome the commitment of commissioner georgieva to a budget that makes sense. let me also congratulate the rapporteur for his excellent work in drafting the guidelines for the 2016 budget. more than ever before, the most important priority is to create more employment in europe. to put it in a nutshell, with employment comes political stability, without employment comes instability, and instability in europe is always fertile soil for dangerous political development. so it should be clear to everyone that we need to give european enterprises the best possible environment for employing people. but this is nothing new and here we are again talking over and over about the same thing. it should be obvious that european political institutions alone are not able to pull the rabbit out of the hat. this is why we should not separate the 2016 budget from the juncker plan. the plan – not just the approval of the plan but the working plan that is implemented – is needed for economic growth in europe. an eu budget is needed for the juncker plan to take off. so in the big picture, the number one priority is to allow additional private investment to take place. as far as the budget itself is concerned, the priorities should go hand in hand with innovations.
the committee on budgetary control has done a good job in this respect, mr president, and the report is critical of almost everything that we can do to improve the regularity and correctness of the use of the eu's money. as part of the fight against fraud, the eu's anti-fraud agency olaf plays a key role. but there's a lot of room for improvement in its methods. the committee was well aware of olaf's problems and took a constructive, critical and consistent approach to the problems. it is quite clear that the independence of olaf must of course be respected. but that does not preclude the need for more reliable and comparable information on olaf's activities in order to really know why and how it works in terms of efficiency and progress of investigations. however, the socialist and democratic group wishes to turn a blind eye to these problems, as is clearly shown by the amendments nos 12, 13 and 14 which they have tabled again in plenary. this approach does not contribute to the eu's anti-fraud efforts or to the development of olaf as a supervisory actor. finally, a few words on the means available to the commission. i think the commission should be firm and follow the line that the committee has indicated. suspension and cancellation of payments are tough but important measures to reduce errors and improve the regularity of eu spending.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr rosat for his good cooperation. the economic content of the report has been mainly good and the author of the report has mainly correctly understood the key problems and solutions of the european economy. i would even say that we would have wished the final report to have been closer to the original draft drawn up by the rapporteur. i would like to stress one point, however. the ecr's vision of the european semester is that the semester should be advisory. for us, preserving the independence of the member states is the basis of all policy and we are not prepared to cede any more budgetary power from the member states to the eu than has already been done. in the future, we would very much like to see a few points of principle relating to the independence of the member states not getting in the way of the main content of the reports on the european semester. so what is the rational content of the advice given to the member states? the ecr wishes to continue to cooperate well with the groups sharing the vision of a free market economy in this continuing process. thank you, sir.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, i should like to thank mr rosati for very honest and good work, and i should also like to thank the rest of the shadows. one of the central words in this debate is ‘austerity’, but this word austerity is at the same time part of a blame game. we tried to use the word austerity just to get rid of our own shortcomings in economic policy. quite recently there was an article by ricardo hausmann about greece. you can find it in the project syndicate, and it is a good read for all those who think that austerity is the main problem here. ricardo hausmann is also known for the atlas of economic complexity, and i think that we, as politicians, are very bad at looking at the complexities. we have a complex with complexities and we do not actually like to go into the details. hausmann’s atlas of economic complexity shows where the problems are. if you take, for instance, greece then you see that the balance between export and import is not a very good one, and due to globalisation greece, portugal and some other countries are gliding down in international competition. they are gliding down as regards possibilities to get into the market, and that is actually the real problem. therefore, we need a european investment policy. we need an investment policy addressing these profound, deep problems in our economies. if we do not do that, then austerity will be the result, and it is going to be the result because we do not understand what we are actually doing.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the murder of boris nemtsov has once again brought to our attention the climate of hatred and intolerance which has been widening in russia, but which is also increasingly present in europe. i am very concerned that civil society, civil and human rights, freedom of expression, democracy and equality are about to be called into question everywhere. all these things i just listed are signs of a civilized society. a strong society can withstand even critical voter pressure without anyone having to die for their political opinions. we must not give any room to racism, xenophobia and right-wing extremism. it is our common responsibility to seek a climate of constructive dialogue, especially when we are living in the midst of conflict. and we must honor the memory of boris nemtsov and the great grief of his family, friends and colleagues, even if it means that no party will use this sad death for its own political purposes. we don't give weapons to a propaganda war. the european union has been built as a union of peace. that's why, in part, it was created in the first place. we must work for peace, democracy and human rights, tirelessly and always. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to the blue card question. mr president, our group is always ready to work for peace and specifically for the advancement of freedom of expression and the right of people to express their opinions and democracy in this world.
mr president, the cowardly murder of the russian opposition leader, boris nemtsov, is indeed the result of the fierce propaganda that russia has been carrying out against the so-called west. that is what my colleague marju lauristin said. the european union and russia are now facing a difficult and stressful situation. not so long ago, a couple of decades ago, the european union supported russia's accession to the wto, with a common goal, a democratic and modern russia. and now we find that russia has become an authoritarian and aggressive country to which the west is an enemy. but the eu-russia cooperation, which was built with great difficulty in those days, must not deteriorate any further. we must try, of course, to engage in self-criticism, but not blame ourselves, because a decisive change of doctrine has taken place in russia. it is a great pity that these relations are now so bad, because the efforts of europe, russia and the entire international community are needed to combat terrorism, to curb climate change, and also arctic cooperation already requires greater cooperation than hitherto.
mr president, i want to honour the memory of our friend boris nemtsov by quoting what he said in this house in a meeting on 16 february 2011 when he was our guest. he said: ‘putin killed the democratic state’. there is a very good record of all that he said here on that day. he was here in parliament to call for support for the forthcoming duma and presidential elections, and many of us were participating with the democratic opposition in order to find ways to make sure that once again those elections would not be stolen. but, as we know, they were stolen. i think that the tragic and undoubtedly political murder of our friend boris nemtsov must now lead to a reset of the european union’s relationship with the democratic forces in russia, and this is what we are calling for in the resolution to be voted on tomorrow. we must give recognition to the incredible courage of the russian democratic opposition, which is now standing against russia’s aggression against ukraine. we certainly have a reason now to recognise this and have more and more visible contacts with them, otherwise the rest of democracy will die in russia. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i believe that our friends in the democratic opposition in russia very much count on our support and they also count on the meetings that they have at a high level with ms mogherini and mr juncker, which now happened, i believe, with mr kasyanov here. so, my answer is that we shall not leave these courageous people alone in their fight. how to deal with putin? i think the message that mr kasyanov gave this morning in the committee on foreign affairs is very worth listening to. he said: follow consequently your line.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development.– mr president, it is always an important day when we discuss the annual human rights report in this house, and it is my pleasure, on behalf of the committee on development, to say that mr panzeri has fully incorporated development policy and development cooperation into our response to the annual report. i have full faith that the high representative also sees the development policy as an integral part of our external relations. i am also very proud of the nomination of the special representative – mr stavros lambrinidis. i think it was a fortunate decision that was taken by your predecessor, and we see now the result. congratulations for the work you are doing. i believe that mr panzeri has produced a report which shows that, indeed, there are many important human rights issues related to development cooperation and development policy. i am also confident, madam high representative, that as a vice—president of the european commission, you have a good level of cooperation with dg devco, the directorate-general for development. a human rights—based approach to development seems to be so natural to us already that it is not even mentioned in the report, but i trust that the work will be taken on. the priorities that you have just listed correspond very well also to what parliament and the committee on development have perceived, including corporate accountability.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, interethnic and intercultural prejudice and violence are a serious and growing problem in europe. if we wish to fight that problem effectively, we must avoid politically correct but inaccurate stereotypes. there is a tendency to lump together jews and muslims, as well as sexual minorities, as the victims. however, anti-semitic violence, in particular, is most often perpetrated by muslims in western europe, rather than by neo-nazis. this is hardly surprising, given that hate speech and intolerance are quite common phenomena in many of the most popular mosques and other muslim institutions in europe. there is also islamophobia in europe, in the most literal meaning of the word: fear of islam and muslims. that fear is caused not only by terrorism but also by the generally poor integration of many immigrant muslims in terms of european basic values and way of life.
mr president, it is nice to see all the usual suspects from the common fisheries reform here. i think that they take good responsibility for the decision. after this introduction i will go over to my native swedish. herr talman! havsabborren är en mycket deliciös fisk med högt näringsvärde. den har fiskats i nordsjön eller i atlanten eller vid den iberiska kusten. så här kunde det låta i en restaurant eller vid ett middagsbord, och det har låtit så här alltför många gånger. det problem vi nu ser är ett typiskt common pool-problem, dvs. det som elinor ostrom beskrev i sin bok om gemensamma resurser och som hon också hade en lösning på. lösningen heter att man måste kunna reglera common pool-tillgångar. av den orsaken är jag mer än glad över att min vän monsieur cadec har tagit detta initiativ. och jag är glad över att våra andra medlemmar av fiskeriutskottet faktiskt tar det ansvar som vi kanske borde ha tagit lite tidigare.
author.– mr president, this joint resolution is about our concern for an indigenous people in tanzania – the masai people. it appears that thousands of indigenous people have been evicted from land to which they have customary rights. the european parliament is, of course, an important actor here, because tanzania is one of the development partner countries of the european union. it is necessary to ensure that the european union and its member states, with the help of its development aid, encourage and demand full transparency and good governance on land tenure issues. the issue is that a very powerful presidential administration is doing big land deals with foreign companies in secret. we should insist on open accessible land registers so that the public and developing partners also have the right to know what kind of deals are being made at the cost of human rights.
in writing. ‒ enhancing cooperation between the eu and the arab league is important and desirable. the violence and torture perpetrated by isis and the terrorist attacks carried out by extremist groups in europe demonstrate the need for europe and the arab union to work together to combat terrorism. the arab league countries have a great responsibility to provide accurate information on the islamic faith and its values, as the attacks by extremist groups have raised suspicion in europe against the whole of islam. it is therefore important to promote intercultural and interreligious dialogue and to intensify interregional cooperation in areas such as the economy, research and education.
for the verts/ale group mr president, the group of the greens/efa supports this proposal unreservedly and we consider it of the utmost importance to safeguard the sovereignty of the ukrainian state by avoiding its being driven into a state of liquidation. that would be the worst thing that could happen to ukrainian sovereignty. however, it is true that this macro-financial assistance may not be ideal for the situation in ukraine. it is necessary, but we would like to see more direct aid to ukraine in the future, which would then be directed towards these reforms, which are primarily about institution building and tackling corruption, but this proposal is important to prevent ukraine from being driven into bankruptcy.
in writing. the president! the free movement of goods, services and people is the eu's most important pillar. i am concerned that this principle is now being challenged in several european countries by the erection of artificial border fences. the safety of goods is also ensured by the use of up-to-date equipment and qualified professional hauliers to move goods around europe on bicycles. it is important that working conditions are fair and that, for example, drivers' rest periods are respected. it is not sensible, however, to apply the labour standards of each country to transit traffic. wage levels vary even between neighbouring countries. the application of national labour standards, even in transit, also imposes an excessive administrative burden on transport operators and creates obstacles to free movement. there are still many obstacles in the transport sector before we can talk about an open and functioning internal market. the focus is on the routes linking europe and their development. but even a good road network is of no use if its use is made more difficult by the construction of obstacles to free movement.
in writing. ‒ the greek application for unemployment effects from the divestment of 46 software and mass communication companies in the attica region complies with the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the application concerns 705 unemployed persons. the report shows that the impact of the reductions in the workforce is very significant in the attica region, which is already the worst unemployed area in greece. the authorities began active actions to help and activate the unemployed well before the eu commission's decision to recommend a grant from the globalisation adjustment fund. the report also shows that all those who have become unemployed have been or are in the process of being covered by the activation measures. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the greek application for unemployment effects from the divestment of 16 software and mass communication companies in the attica region complies with the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund. the application concerns 928 unemployed persons. the report shows that the impact of the reductions in the workforce is very significant in the attica region, which is already the worst unemployed area in greece. the authorities began active actions to help and activate the unemployed well before the eu commission's decision to recommend a grant from the globalisation adjustment fund. the report also shows that all those who have become unemployed have been or are in the process of being covered by the activation measures. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the irish application for the unemployment effects of an aircraft mechanics company complies with the criteria of the european globalisation adjustment fund, with a derogation. the application concerns a total of 424 unemployed persons. the application of ireland has benefited from the derogation from article 4 (1) (a) which allows for the granting of support from the globalisation adjustment fund even where the direct effects on unemployment are less than 500 workers but have very significant effects on regional unemployment. the report also shows that the unemployed have a low level of education and a high proportion of assisted housing. it is also very difficult for these workers to remain in the labour market, because they have special skills that are not needed in other sectors. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu commission proposal calls for the eu to borrow eur 1.8 billion from the capital markets, which it will continue to lend to ukraine. the loan is to be repaid by ukraine after 15 years. the loan is conditional on ukraine committing to structural reforms. the economic problems in ukraine are mainly due to the crisis in eastern ukraine. in addition, ukraine has structural problems. the russian trade restrictive measures and the escalation of the ukrainian-russian gas dispute have also had a strong impact on the ukrainian economy. the loan is conditional on, inter alia, fiscal reforms, anti-corruption measures, changes in tax administration, reforms in the energy and financial sectors and improvement of the business environment. the eu decision is above all symbolic of solidarity. although i cannot fully believe that ukraine will be able to repay the loans, i do value the impact of the eu. we must keep the eu and the countries that rely on it together. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, just a month ago i had a breathtaking view in front of my eyes: i saw the biblical mount ararat from the armenian side of the closed border with turkey and i realised how deep our common european history is and how rooted it is in this region that we are discussing today. i think we have to do everything to encourage confidence-building at all levels: at the historian’s level, at the grass-roots level and at the level of politicians so that turkey and armenia can come to terms with this tragic genocide that we are commemorating now. a large number of members of the european parliament were actually able to participate in a commemoration in yerevan a month ago, and it was a deeply impressive moment for all of us when we were laying flowers on the monument in yerevan. we must continue to gently push turkey to come to terms with its own past. we must encourage the turkish authorities to open all the archives: providing historians, academics and researchers the opportunity to shed light on these tragic events which indeed today we have reason to call genocide. we can also do a lot in the un framework: we can support the un human rights council, which has proposed an international day of commemoration and dignity of the victims of genocide, and that would be 9 december.
for the verts/ale group mr president, i would like to thank the vice-president of the commission for his strong and active stance on diversity in the commission's and other institutions' human resources policy. it is worth remembering that the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities was the first human rights convention ratified by the european union after it was given the right to ratify international treaties, and this also has a very high exemplary impact. it is important that the union institutions really set an example and are at the forefront. of course, the commission and the vice-president can also learn from good practice in the member states. it is therefore very important that the member states also step up their efforts to promote the concrete ratification of this treaty. mrs georgieva, you mentioned that the staff regulations do not allow quotas at the moment. this is an interesting question because we have discussed together that perhaps one day there will be such a uniform administrative law in the union, and it may be worthwhile for us to return to this question in that context, because it may well be that all the institutions of the union could have such a temporary obligation to introduce, for example, quotas for disabled people. as many colleagues have said, they are often the quickest way of making disabled people visible. as has also been said here, any of us can become disabled and that is why this is important for all of us.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ecall system can be seen as a precedent for the future need to pay increasing attention to issues such as privacy and data collection and processing when drawing up transport regulation. i do not see it desirable or even possible that we should develop rules or models of action on a case-by-case basis, but we must define the principles and the framework conditions at eu level for the collection and processing of traffic data in a timely manner. there are differences of opinion here in parliament, both between and within the groups. however, it must be remembered that we have committed ourselves at eu level to halving road deaths in this decade. this is not done by declarations alone, but by all means. every year, 27 500 people in europe die in road accidents - the equivalent of an entire small town. as a transport map, i cannot accept that we have to put the protection of people's lives and privacy or data protection in a competitive position. we're gonna have to be able to take care of both of them. the issue must be resolved as part of the digital agenda for transport.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, i would like to start by thanking my colleague mr wałęsa for his work. here we have all the fighters from the reform of the common fisheries policy, with mrs rodust and gabriel mato and mr gróbarczyk. i think this is a great step forward because we know that the plan for the baltic will be a blueprint for the rest of the multi-species plans to be made. we have therefore been very careful to produce a report that can serve as the blueprint and we have therefore been very careful with the facts and background work. i would just like to add that i have tabled an amendment just to get the latest scientific figures into the report.
i hope, mr president, that the fact that we are discussing so important a matter as the forest strategy at this late hour does not reflect the triviality of the matter. yesterday, i was walking in a forest of blue flowers near brussels. i come from a country called finland, which has more protected forests than belgium. it is good to see that europe's forest resources are growing and not diminishing. we are talking about renewable resources at a time when europe is concerned about natural resources and what we are doing beyond fossil fuels and what we are doing in the face of climate change. forests, renewable energy and the bioeconomy are the answer. although the member states have the primary responsibility for implementing the programmes, the commission is also planning an implementation programme. i hope for a coherent approach where the commission sees the potential through research and development in the bioeconomy, and also in all that is already being done: three million jobs, sustainable construction potential and know-how for wood processing. i hope that the commission will also be open to parliament on this matter, because there is a lot of interest here.
rapporteur.– mr president, first of all i would like to express my deeply felt gratitude for the work of my fellow rapporteurs – the shadow rapporteurs. there is a very interesting group dynamic. we come from different parties and have different opinions, we come from different countries and have different priorities but, despite all these differences, we build something. we band together in the process and actually we end up being fairly good friends, despite all the differences. even though the presidency is not here at the moment, i would also like to express my gratitude for the way in which the presidency has worked, because they made a substantial contribution. i knew that they had had a very bad start in the council but they did the best they could and, after going left and right, up and down, we eventually succeeded in bringing this very technical, technological and ideological report to the goal. but there are two things which disturb me. we set out to reduce greenhouse gases and to open up europe for technological progress. after all the votes in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) we have to ask ourselves whether we actually achieved what we set out to achieve. the honest answer is that actually we did not. we had much higher goals. we had set higher goals to be able to reduce greenhouse gases, to get europe into a position where we could meet our goals for 2020, 2030 and even for 2050. i am very worried – and i think my fellow shadows are also worried in the same way – about our ability to reach these goals. we also set out to open up europe for technological progress. we found that this was probably a very important goal because, if europe does not move forward in technological means, it will end up being left on the back burner and being relegated to second, third or fourth place in the world. in this respect we have a systemic shortcoming. we have a blocking minority in the council and this blocking minority sometimes develops into a dictatorship of the minority where we have member states that are afraid of the future. when they are afraid of the future, they do not dare to make the right decisions and they therefore put on the handbrake and try to run europe on the handbrake. i think this systemic shortcoming in the way in which the council works is one of the biggest challenges we have. if the council is not able to see the future and if they are not able to see the light on the horizon then we will not reach our goals. i will be glad to come back after hearing the shadows.
i am pleased, mr president, to be chairman of the bioeconomy working party in this parliament and therefore glad that we have reached the compromise on which we are voting today. however, the target should be the 2020s, as there is very little time to reach that year. i hope that the focus will be on reducing co2 emissions from transport. this can be done without competition from food production, because we can develop good raw materials from, for example, northern forests and waste and food sources. the european parliament itself noted in its resolution that the eu should seek to exploit biofuels made from waste, which can achieve high emission reductions. unfortunately, the form we are now considering does not give the industry a very convincing picture of what needs to be done now. i regret that no binding target has been set for the future. that is why i ask how national implementation can remain so important. in finland, 10% of the 20% target has already been reached, and in sweden, 17%. will the commission take action to ensure that a genuine internal market is also created for biofuels?
rapporteur.– mr president, listening to the debate in parliament sometimes feels like looking at a film by sergio leone. for some of us, it is ‘the good, the bad and the ugly’ and for others it is ‘for a few dollars more’. in some respects, i think all those who spoke here were on the right track – not always, but in some respects – but we did not fix everything. we did not fix everything that should be fixed on the earth, and i think commissioner arias cañete will be back with this issue in, let us say, three years’ time, not just because of the energy union, but because of the fact that the technological progress we see out there in reality is for the moment very fast and we do not know where it is going to end and what possibilities we will have after two or three years. when i say that i think we fixed one thing, by that i meant – and my friend, mr fjellner, used the swedish expression ‘stabila spelregle’ or ‘stable rules of the game’ – i think what we gave was a signal that the european union should have stable rules for the industry, because if we do not have that, the faster the technological development is, the greater the risk that industry goes elsewhere. i think we fixed that, but saying that we have fixed it at the same time as we have very fast progress it is a very tricky issue. so, commissioner arias cañete, i think you have every reason to be slightly worried. you are going to have a lot of work and you are going to be back with us trying to fix some of the next problems we have before us – and for sure we are going to have them. thank you all for a very interesting debate. the struggle goes on.
in writing. one of our main objectives is to attract more investment to europe. in order to encourage companies to invest, they need regulatory certainty for the long term. the development and production of biofuels often involves hundreds of millions of euros for a single company. it is regrettable that the iluc now under consideration does not provide the long-term prospects for companies that are needed. the directive is aimed at 2020 targets, even though we already have fresh climate and energy targets for 2030, which should have been linked more strongly to renewable transport fuels. the list of raw materials included in the iluc is also problematic, as some of the raw materials are double counted. such double counting distorts the raw material market and does not encourage research and development. technology is advancing rapidly; today's waste may be tomorrow's valuable raw material. legislation should provide a framework, but it is up to researchers and businesses to assess the means to achieve this. transport accounts for 30% of carbon dioxide emissions in europe and the fastest way to cut emissions is to replace fossil fuels with renewable energy. therefore, the work on energy efficiency and low-emission transport must continue at the global level as well.
on behalf of the alde group.– mr president, shipping, like any other industry, should be regulated on environmental standards. however, it is important to bear in mind that shipping is a very international industry, and therefore the question of a level playing field is of the utmost importance. therefore, i would like to take the opportunity to call on the commission and the member states to step up their activity in the imo, and not just concerning emissions mrv. i am satisfied with the report since i think it struck the right balance and we are able to make some adjustment, but that does not mean disproportionate red tape. i am also satisfied that navigation in ice is mentioned because it entails a lot of costs, and if we do not take into account the different circumstances which shipping has to work in then we, willingly or not, create an uneven playing field. the estimated cost of the mrv per ship will be about eur 7 000. however, any implementation or any rule is only as good as the implementation. we who are mainly concerned with shipping in the baltic sea would like to know how good the control will be because we have – for ‘some peculiar reason’ – some second thoughts about russian ships. how will russian ships in the baltic be controlled? if there are no effective fines, then we again have a playing field which is not as even as the sea level. i think we have a lot of work to do. we have to be effective in the imo and we have to be effective in implementing this file. if we are not, then we are going to have more problems.
mr president, the requirements for reducing the environmental impact of shipping have been considerably tightened recently, in particular by the entry into force of the waste directive, placing the so-called seca area in the baltic sea here in europe under a special magnifying glass and challenging the shipping industry to renew its equipment and technologies at a rapid pace. i could go on and on about the specific features of the baltic sea, but it is particularly important here in parliament's legislative work to bear in mind the fact that the baltic sea is covered by ice for months in winter. the safety of shipping in winter conditions is always dependent on the ice-resistance of ships, which in practice means more steel, while reducing the energy efficiency of ships. it is also important that the specific characteristics of the different regions be taken into account in the further work on co2 emissions, so that safety and environmental requirements do not have to be set against each other.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this monitoring exercise because, although the bologna process is not an eu policy in itself, its key elements are embedded in the eu's education policy framework. although parliament has no real competence in matters relating to bologna, i think it is important to discuss the european dimension of education, as a former erasmus student myself. for example, even in eu-sceptical circles, student mobility is seen as a positive. both in the new structure of education and in the workplace, education is seen as a key element in improving the employment situation in europe. this is very understandable and very welcome. however, it is important that the role of the bologna process as a means of quality assurance and better recognition of qualifications throughout europe remains clear. bologna, or other aspects and objectives of education policy, must not be subordinated to employment policy or its instruments. it is particularly positive that the report says that the objectives of the process must be achieved before new ones are defined. it is also important to recognise that the bologna process has had a positive impact. however, the bologna process and its objectives are now seen as too self-evident, although there is still room for improvement. although the report mentions the social dimension and accessibility of education as neglected elements of the bologna process, there is no mention of the social dimension strategy of the ehea. i believe that social impact assessment is important in all eu activities and i hope that it will also be discussed at the council meeting.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the bologna process has, in line with its objectives, promoted student mobility and internationalisation. erasmus has given young people the opportunity to study abroad and to learn foreign languages and cultures. it is very important to continue to invest in the development of education and research. the single european higher education area, the comparability of degrees and qualifications and the recognition of diplomas are the conditions for the effective and full realisation of the free movement of students. free movement and recognition of skills are also of paramount importance for promoting european growth and competitiveness. continuous updating of skills and lifelong learning will improve employment opportunities and help to meet the changing needs of working life. the development of education must therefore focus on work-life balance, student-centredness and quality of education.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the eu forest strategy. the strategy takes quite a balanced approach between the different roles and functions of forests. sustainable forest management ensures that environmental, social and economic viewpoints are all well presented. there is a clear need for better coordination between the member states. for example, biodiversity protection practices and experiences in different member states should be circulated. knowledge is to be shared. forests have a central role in providing jobs for remote areas, ensuring the preservation of biodiversity and having a positive impact on managing climate change. however, coordination and deepening cooperation in the forest sector neither necessitates a uniform eu approach nor a single legal base. member states should continue to have the competences for the management of their forests. managed wisely, the forest sector is a sustainable industry, providing valuable jobs at the core of the bio-economy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the forest strategy as an environmentally, economically and socially balanced strategy, which enables better coordination of the different eu-level strategies influencing the forest sector. i strongly opposed, however, amendment 3 by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi), as it needs clarification about the carbon neutrality of biomass. biomass is carbon neutral. the international panel for climate change under the united nations gives a 0.0 co2-emissions factor for biomass. the eu should not differentiate itself from this international standard. losing carbon neutrality would shake the fundamentals of the euʼs renewable energy policy. it would endanger the achievement of eu renewable energy targets and bring uncertainty to the industry covered by the eu emission trading scheme. moreover, the eu must not have double emissions counting for biomass. in the international climate change framework the emissions are reported in the agriculture, forestry and other land-use (afolu) sector (previously the lulucf sector). moreover, we should not examine the mitigation within a ʽpolicy timeframeʼ. instead, we should examine mitigation based on the significantly longer natural carbon cycle and base our policies on a natural timeframe.
in writing. ‒ sustainably managed forests are of great importance to the well-being of europe as a whole. forests are important recreational sites, but also sources of growth and jobs. european wood and forestry companies are aiming to create 80 000 new jobs in the sector. forests are of particular importance to my own country: 76% of finland's land area is forested and forests account for 4% of gdp. finland also has the highest proportion of protected forests in europe: we cut down forests much less than they grow in a year. it is good that the eu forest strategy now looks at forests in a more diverse way. forests are important carbon sinks and their role in combating climate change is significant. but that is no reason to leave the forest unused and untreated, quite the opposite. sustainable forest management also allows for the economic exploitation of forests, even more so than at present. sustainably managed forests are a source of renewable energy, a generator of growth and jobs, and a driver of rural development. it is important to invest in research and development in this area. for example, we should increase the use of wood in europe. although the member states have the right to decide on forest policy, the national forest databases of the various member states should be linked together at european level. this would give us better and more up-to-date information on our forests at eu level.
the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. mr president, i am speaking on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs. i want to make two points. the first is cost-effectiveness and the means of saving the eu and its member states' resources, and the citizens getting their tax money back for the eu's common services. consular services should be provided by eu missions. it would save money. unfortunately, consular services now have to be applied for by each member state, there are no common ones. the second point i would like to draw attention to is the distortions of what one might call the personnel of the foreign affairs department. the situation there has been and is still from the beginning that the old member states and the large member states have much more staff, also in relation to the population. and there are very few women in the foreign service, contrary to what lady ashton promised when she founded the foreign service. he promised to look into this, but there's a lot of work to be done.
madam president, search and rescue operations are not a long-term solution, as they only encourage more people to take the sea journey and thereby lead to new tragedies. many people in parliament call for resettlement and new legal channels to europe. this is not a solution either. europe cannot afford – economically, socially or politically – this kind of immigration in these kinds of numbers. the vast majority of refugees will, in any case, remain in conflict zones and refugee camps, often in miserable conditions. this is why we should use our limited humanitarian resources not on rescue operations or the few lucky ones who have the money to pay the smugglers. in short, it is in our own interest, and in the interest of the vast majority of refugees, that we stop thinking about ways to bring people to europe, and start thinking about how to help as many people as possible where they are.
in writing. ‒ i voted today in parliament to increase funding for youth guarantee schemes. the idea behind the youth guarantee scheme is to offer every young person a job, a place in education or a traineeship. i think this should now give momentum and send a clear message to the member states that the eu is doing its part to promote this. it is high time that member states took up this challenge and did something to help young people catch up with the labour market. the youth guarantee, which is run by the demar group and has already been tested in finland, is an excellent tool for this. today's decision was a good step forward. however, europe still has a long way to go before the situation of youth unemployment is in sight. of course, improving the overall employment situation through growth and job creation is also the best guarantee for tackling youth unemployment. you can't spend a whole generation waiting for that. this is a concept to which the european parliament is also strongly committed. however, solutions to youth unemployment also require their own efforts and special attention. europe cannot lose the younger generations, but must be able to offer them hope and jobs. the youth guarantee is only one instrument, but it is a concrete one.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, i believe that we should look at development financing including official development assistance (oda) rather as a global tax for the developing countries, because we are obliged to contribute to their overall development. unfortunately we tend to look at it more like any other budget line which can be reduced in times of economic crisis and recession, and i think this is ultimately wrong. we will also hurt our own societies if we do not help poor countries to grow and develop and create dignity for all. so that is the background of the question of the development committee: that there have been concerns, at this time, which certainly is economically difficult, that the european union would shy away from its commitments and that it would not stick to the 0.7 % target with a timeline. the problem clearly is that this would be looked at in a very negative way in the international conferences that mrs mcavan, our chair, has explained. for that aid, our oda commitment, to be conditional on the contributions of other players in the world would send out a wrong signal. we know the detrimental consequences of these kinds of tactics from the climate negotiations, and that is why it has been extremely important that the european union has been at the forefront in climate policy internationally. i do not believe that the others would be doing even that much if we had not done that – so let us not make that mistake in development financing.
blue-card question. – ms james, perhaps you have not noticed that in the past few years there has been a huge emphasis on accountability and openness of aid and, whether or not you would like to get to know some of those processes (which certainly should calm your concerns), it is true that, in previous decades, many mistakes were made – but also many lessons were learned. i am very happy to say that the european union and its forefront member states are really advanced in opening up aid and also correcting any mistakes which may have been found.
mr president, there is increasing pressure on international development finance institutions to be transparent and accountable. i am extremely concerned and shocked that the bank's new transparency policy does not seem to meet even the legal requirements for transparency. i would like to ask the president-in-office and the commissioner the following question: 'do you intend to agree to the revision of the transparency policy?' for example, the european ombudsman has given this matter serious attention. it is truly incredible that the bank could now weaken the transparency of its operations. this would be done in such a way that, under the new transparency policy, new confidentiality rules could be applied to internal documents. i believe that at some point we will have to look at these matters in the court of justice, which will ultimately decide what the eu's transparency requirements are.
for the verts/ale group mr president, this is a real superyear for development policy. we have the european year of development and two important meetings. in addis ababa, the future of development finance is being decided, and then later this year, the un will agree on new global goals for sustainable development. we must not fail at this financial conference in addis ababa, because it is about meeting the truly enormous global challenges. first of all, of course, the fight against poverty: it is no longer enough to halve poverty, but we must achieve the elimination of absolute poverty in the world. we have new challenges, not so new in fact, but of greater acute importance. i am thinking here, for example, of climate change, and it is very important in this context that the rapporteur has finally put forward a proposal for amendment in which he stresses the utmost importance of helping communities to become more resilient to all the natural disasters of this kind, which are also caused by climate change. i would like to stress that the council should not now impose any further restrictions or conditions on this objective of official development assistance, but that the 0.7% target must be achieved without reference to any acute economic situation, because one can only imagine how bad the situation is for the developing countries if we suffer from bad economic conditions here. this 0.7% is a kind of global tax which we must implement, and all the other things the committee is stressing are also part of this package, in particular the collection of taxes in developing countries to finance their own activities. we must also be able to look at how to find new sources of finance. finally, i would like to say that nothing will come of it unless development policy is in harmony with all other policies.
blue-card question.– mr gill, i believe that the uk has been a really delightful example in that it does not separate global problems from solving problems at home, and i believe that, at the end of the day, we all should agree that there is no security at home unless there is security worldwide. the uk, i think, has been exemplary also in looking for results and measuring those results. i do not personally always agree with their approach of value for money – how many vaccinations, how many school books have been delivered – but they are really looking at those results. so do you not agree that the uk has quite a good administration to govern development policy?
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for doing what obviously at the moment seems possible for her to do. it is greatly appreciated that she has come to parliament with a statement on the cooperation agreements between the member states, the european union and the major tobacco companies. however, it is our view that the negotiations between the commission and the tobacco companies should be much more open and transparent. as it stands now, we have been allowed to view the documents in a secure reading room for a couple of hours, and this took place after a rather frustrating correspondence with her predecessor. as a matter of fact, it would require a specialist lawyer to understand anything that is in those papers. we are now anxiously waiting for the commission’s assessment of the benefits of the current tobacco agreements, or agreement with philip morris international, within the next couple of weeks, as was mentioned. but i think we should go further. it is now essential for the way negotiations are conducted to be changed. this parliament should, at the least, be informed of the discussions along the way, and not after everything has been said and done. even better would be to invite us to the table as observers to monitor the reasoning of whether it would be good to prolong the agreements, for what reasons, and what we, as the union, could achieve by prolonging these agreements. it is about taxpayers’ money, and at the moment there is a feeling among the public that they are being held as mere bystanders in what is potentially of huge importance financially and otherwise to them, as citizens of the union. after all, how are taxpayers supposed to be represented if parliament is not properly and entirely informed?
we really need a regulation covering the whole supply chain, mr president, and it must be a mandatory regulation, because we know what happens when a voluntary regulation has already been in place in the eu since 2010. this regulation would therefore not change the current situation very much. it is often a good thing to start from voluntary action and move towards binding legislation. we are in a situation where it is good to introduce legislation that is binding on all actors. contrary to what has been said here, such a mandatory system covering the entire production chain would in fact make it easier for smaller companies to demonstrate that their products meet these ethical sustainability standards, since the data for the entire chain would then be readily available. this would put european operators on the same footing as the others. how can we resist this, ladies and gentlemen? we should listen to the most progressive companies talking about how much business opportunity is in ethics and responsibility.
the question of the blue card. thank you for your interesting speech and especially the end where you said that all people should be able to benefit from this digital single market. in fact, only marju lauristin has so far drawn attention to the fact that there is a real threat of some citizens being excluded. if, for example, you go to the health centre or you go to school, and you register digitally, some people are being left out in this digital revolution. as the representative of the largest parliamentary group, what are your thoughts on this growing inequality that the digital revolution may bring?
mr president, the creation of the digital single market is one of the most important growth drivers in europe. we have a region of 500 million people, but it is actually divided into 28 separate regions. this is shown by the fact that only 15% of europeans buy electronic services from another eu country and only 7% of companies currently sell their services across borders. this is not in the interests of consumers or companies. the commission's approach to creating a digital single market is a good one. it has raised some very good points, some of which i should like to mention in particular. the second is the vat which was discussed here yesterday. it is very important that electronic services are treated at least equally, but even more preferably in preference to traditional services. the second issue is copyright. i would urge the commission to make a bold and modern reform. we still have a lot of old-fashioned copyright residues, including old device fees, or cassette fees, which are not currently relevant to today's internet age.
i am in favour of increased european defence cooperation, mr president, and there are a number of good reasons for this, including one that was mentioned by the high representative, mrs mogherini, namely that it can also save money. we need a fairer distribution of the burden of funding operations. now the financing is mainly provided by those who participate in these operations. this makes it difficult for small states, for example, to participate in these operations if they have to pay for them themselves. secondly, joint operations are for the security of europe as a whole, and joint financing should also be arranged. secondly, i would like to stress that there should be more cooperation between civilian crisis management and military operations. i know that military operations are often a little different from civilian operations, but there are certainly opportunities to look at what we can do together. thirdly, and in short, the financing process should be speeded up, but the transparency of the financing of operations must be maintained in the future.
the question of the blue card. you spoke of the responsibility of states and the desire to defend their own territory. have you not noticed that this is precisely what has led to the great waste and weakness that the european union has created in the field of security, and to the fact that we have a lot of waste in the purchase of weapons, in the armed forces we use, and so on. would not a common policy bring more added value?
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. as we know, money laundering is a serious problem. it's a major source of revenue for criminal organizations, and it's damaging our economy to a great extent. we worked on this bill for quite a while. i would like to thank the rapporteurs who have been extremely cooperative. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs who have worked on this. first, we started with risk analysis. the background of a thorough risk analysis is, of course, a prerequisite for the creation of a sound legislation. the second important question was about the actual owner. perhaps the greatest victory we achieved in the tripartite talks was that we now have a record of the actual owners. when we know how complicated structures we can have in terms of, for example, casinos and in terms of money laundering, that was of the greatest benefit. i am particularly pleased that we have also managed to solve some of the problems we so easily encounter, that we are creating legislation that puts everyone on the same page. the money laundering criminals will then be placed on the same footing as the social enterprises in, say, finland. for that reason, i would like to thank my colleagues and my fellow members of parliament once again for the fact that we have succeeded in producing a bill that we can defend at home, that we can be proud of, and that we also believe solves the problems we have before us.
in writing. like so many of my colleagues today, i too call for a negotiated solution to the maternity leave directive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to health. the directive would be a minimum harmonisation measure and would not prevent member states from providing for a higher level of maternity leave. the directive is also important for the internal market. it would create a more level playing field for european industry. the 1% increase in the female employment rate is enough to cover the costs of the directive. the highest birth rates are found in european countries where good family leave and childcare services compensate for the burden of children. these are the countries with the highest female employment rates. in high-income countries, higher birth rates are a boost to economic growth. the proposal for a directive requires that maternity leave be counted as a period of employment for the purpose of calculating pensions. the directive would thus narrow the gap between the development of women's and men's incomes.
mr president, a growing proportion of those who cross the mediterranean are not, by definition, refugees fleeing from persecution, but rather economic migrants from western africa and elsewhere. they are encouraged by european maritime activities and our inefficient return policies. the population of africa is expected to reach four billion by the end of this century, so the pressure will not go away. the question is: can europe indefinitely afford, economically or socially, a massive influx of people for whom the european labour market has very little to offer? already today we can witness the failed integration in most western european countries. one may predict that the situation will not improve if the numbers increase dramatically. i think we should pay close attention to how australia is dealing with this situation and look for a model there.
the youth employment initiative was welcomed with gratitude when it was adopted in 2013. during the elections, many parties told young people that this was also their continent, that europe was also working for them. where is the credibility of the union if young people are promised the highest possible level of funding, but this money, which is also available, is not actually spent on them? youth unemployment is not to be treated with fatigue at any level. we must constantly strive to find new ways and practices. all means and tools must be used, and the whole of society, the public sector, companies, small businesses and ngos must be involved, to find projects and share good ideas, not forgetting the softer sectors. there is a lot of unfinished business in europe. i'm not going to talk about the lost generation. the young people and the generation in the recession must also be able to provide the keys to independent life, experience and education so that they can take europe forward.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tarabella, for this excellent report. but there are a few amendments to be made, and we are voting on them today. in the big picture, it is good that these programmes are put together and that the administration is unnecessarily dismantled, but it would also be appropriate to change the name of the programme a little. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. we have berries, especially from northern europe, and they are very good and healthy. the point here is that those countries, finland and france and many others, which have done well in implementing this programme, should not be punished for having handled this programme well. so this historical basis of distribution should not be changed and this transitional period should be presented, which is what tarabella has here. that is why we have a point by point vote on amendment no 29, paragraph 2. i hope that all of you who support this programme will then join in, and that this will ensure that the countries which have used this programme well can continue to use it and that it will thereby benefit the children and young people of europe.
in writing. a healthy and varied diet is essential for a healthy person. this is especially important for a growing child. unfortunately, healthy food is often more expensive than one-sided and unhealthy food. the eu currently has two separate school programmes to support healthy eating in schools and day-care centres. the dairy programme has been in operation since 1977 and the fruit programme since 2007. it's easy for a finn to be proud of free school meals. at the same time, attention is drawn to the fact that not all european children and young people have the same opportunity. when we vote on this, we are talking about combining the two existing programmes and making their administration more efficient. the same money should go further than that. i wholeheartedly support this. healthy food belongs to everyone.
mr president, i think the commissioner quite rightly said that isolation seldom helps, but then of course the question is how to engage with a regime that is, by all criteria, one of the most repressive in the world. add the fact that we are dealing with a country that could easily be listed in the top three most isolated countries, next to north korea and perhaps turkmenistan. i think eritrea would be very high on this list. perhaps looking for some innovative solutions through development cooperation might be a way forward. i shall just give you an example. an international federation of deaf-disabled people have a project in north korea to help deaf people there, so there must be some ways of getting entry points in order gradually to convince the government that it would profit from opening up. lastly, and perhaps this is a question to you, commissioner, we have the intergovernmental authority on development for the horn of africa countries. is regional cooperation ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, it is shocking that the leading cause of death for girls aged 15 to 19 is pregnancy and childbirth. this too shows how important it is that we put these early child marriages at the very centre of our fight for the rights of girls and women. and now that the commission is preparing this next gender action programme, i hope that this issue will be strongly emphasised there. mr president, i have seen in practice that it is not always enough to change the laws. it may be that a country has a very good constitution which states that a person under 18 cannot marry, but there may be exceptions, such as a judge in morocco who can exercise a very wide discretion, and then very young girls can be forced into marriage. or in tanzania, for example, which also has a fine progressive constitution, such traditional law prevails. that is why it is important to speak to the traditional leaders of these communities. it is also important to empower girls to believe that they must go to school and thereby secure their own lives.
in writing. women's fundamental rights are human rights. this is something that sounds obvious to many citizens, but unfortunately it is not even so in europe. that is why the fundamental rights of women must be emphasised. the gender gap in working life remains. the gender pay gap is on average 16.4%. the difference in pensions is even greater, at 39%. this is due to the division of work into male and female jobs, but there is also a lot of work to be done in reconciling work and family life. that is why i am in favour of the reform of the maternity leave directive. i hope that the council will have the political will and the commission the courage to complete this important directive.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, the european union has been awarded the nobel peace prize in recognition of its contribution to peace and stability on our continent. i think that this is an obligation that we now have in our relations with russia, even though it is sometimes very difficult. the european union must be able to play a leading role in the world, and we must be able to play a leading role in the world. and as the commissioner said: 'the more united the eu is in relation to russia, the more we can promote the core european values: democracy, the rule of law, human rights.' the socialist group wants to speed up dialogue and diplomacy. parliamentary diplomacy is also important. the blacklisting of several european politicians and members of parliament by russia was ill-conceived and only deepened the cycle of mistrust. my own group has made a positive contribution to the landsbergis report now before us. russia must implement the minsk agreements and respect the right of ukraine and its other neighbours to make political choices. the annexation of crimea is contrary to international law and must never be accepted or acknowledged. but despite all this, the doors must be opened to dialogue and the aim must be to build new trust. the common interests and challenges are the fight against climate change, terrorism, crossborder cooperation and, for example, the policy of the northern dimension. it is quite right to condemn, as the report does, the restrictions on media and internet freedom in russia, and we should also be concerned about russia's support for the activities of the extreme right in the eu member states. the european union must be able to take action to combat terrorism and to prevent it from spreading. the world's problems cannot be solved without cooperation between europe and russia. we are also bound by geography to each other. and this is a good starting point as we begin to carry out the great task that the nobel peace prize has given us. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer to the blue card question. sanctions are absolutely necessary and, as mrs merkel has recently pointed out, they can also be tightened up. but it is important to ensure that new visions of cooperation are also constantly being opened up. as the commissioner said, if we just list each other's sins from one report to the next without opening up anything new, this circle will get worse. i wouldn't want that to happen.
the question of the blue card. mr president, i am sure we all have a very pessimistic view of russia and what is happening at the moment, but do you believe that it is possible to develop a vision of cooperation, re-engagement? is that even possible in your mind?
blue-card question. – i am sure that we all have the russian picture – we have no illusions – but i want to ask whether you agree with the commissioner that there should be, and could be, a kind of vision developed looking towards the re-engagement of europe with russia.
mr president, the current difficulties in eu-russia relations are essentially due to the intensification of geopolitical antagonism in europe. in ukraine, it led to civil war and an international crisis, with the eu and russia even imposing sanctions on each other. the solution to the improvement of eu-russia relations must be found in a peaceful settlement of the crisis in ukraine. the minsk ii agreement must be implemented. russia must do its part and ensure that the separatists also comply with the agreement. the eu, in turn, must influence the ukrainian government to implement the agreement fully. the new ukrainian constitution, which will enter into force by the end of this year and which is based on the principle of decentralisation, and the permanent legislation on the special status of certain regions in donetsk and luhansk are crucial. the eu must do its part to ensure that eu-russia relations are transformed from hostility to constructive cooperation. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
answer to the blue card question. mr president, i agree that we must have a common policy towards russia. on the other hand, we all know that there are different views in the member states, including here in parliament, and we must negotiate what the common line is that we will implement together. i think it is very important that the union does everything it can to promote peaceful solutions and to develop peaceful cooperation with russia and also with other countries.
mr president, i have received numerous congratulations during the past 10 days for being on the blacklist, but i must say that i am not very pleased. i am not amused and i am not happy, because what we are seeing is russia simulating many actions and measures that the european union is taking towards it, and these sanctions against persons entering the russian federation are a mockery of democratic principles and the rule of law. there is no transparency, there are no individual justifications, there is no possibility of appeal, and i expect the european union to protest against such measures. we have a problem with russia simulating other measures, and now – with regard to these sanctions and the blacklist – we have heard foreign minister lavrov saying that they tried to contain themselves for a long time in the face of the eu sanctions against russia, but then they were forced to react, in line with the best principle of international law, which is mutuality and reciprocity. this is a mockery of international law – let’s face it. if this is the kind of partner we have before us, what can we expect? however – to come back to mr landsbergis’s report – i agree with everyone who has said that the eu must remain open to a constructive relationship and to dialogue leading to that, and that the eu wishes to return to cooperative relations with russia, should the russian authorities meet their international legal obligations. it is our duty to find openings of this kind. however, in the current situation, with russia again increasing and accelerating its military measures against ukraine, it is of the utmost importance that the eu stands firm.
in writing. ‒ the mr president, at today's sitting i voted in favour of the union's strategy for equality between women and men. the report gives greater prominence to women's rights, the discrimination they face in various areas of life and gender equality as a whole. so instead of the earlier programme focusing on 'equality between women and men', we took a broader one. we are living in 2015 in a europe where one third of women have experienced physical or sexual violence as adults, where women's employment is still more challenging than men's in many places and where the rate of full-time employment is just over 50%. the gender pay gap is 16.4%, and the pension gap is as high as 39%. economic growth and prosperity are not achieved when half of the working age population is underrepresented in the labour market. moreover, solutions to these problems help not only women but also men, for example by helping parents with young children to balance work and home life. finnish women are also exposed to a shocking amount of violence, which is too rarely addressed. the differences in wages and hence pensions are almost as bad as in many other eu countries. i am also proud that we in this parliament have taken care to take account of the single parent and rainbow families.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the two-degree limit has long been the climate scientists' view of how our planet can withstand a large temperature increase without serious and irreversible environmental changes. it is important that the leaders of the world's largest economies also take this objective seriously. the eu, the us and china, among others, have already announced their emission reduction targets for the paris meeting, but two thirds of the world's carbon dioxide emissions are still outside the reduction commitments. the eu's pioneering role in tackling climate change is threatened to become an illusion. on monday, the energy ministers of the member states finally did not interfere in any way with state aid for the production and use of fossil fuels. direct aid alone to this industry amounts to €100 billion a year. although fossil fuels could be phased out by 2050, major eu countries such as germany, the uk, france and italy have increased their use of coal in recent years. in the absence of a strong political message, the potential that the renewable energy sector could bring to life has been missed in the eu. for example, there are no european companies in the top 10 solar panel manufacturers, and the focus of expertise has shifted to china. the investment in renewable energy in china is also reflected in the fact that the country has announced that it will reach its climate targets ahead of schedule.
madam president, welcome to this discussion, commissioner. what did we actually learn in connection with the so-called iluc file? we learned that we have a considerable amount of member states afraid of being left behind and therefore opposing targets and paths towards producing a more energy-efficient europe. in the closing debate on iluc, i said that we have to revisit this issue in three years. i think i was a wrong. if we are seriously going to tackle the question of energy security, we need goals and targets as soon as possible. part of the solution of the energy security issue is actually linked to our ability and willingness to get the circular economy up and running. if you look at the means of energy production for the moment, we see that we have a huge challenge – we have a mountain to climb. i hope that our beloved commissioner will do his utmost to get this on the table as soon as possible.
mr president, europe imports energy every day for over a billion euros, which shows how dependent we are on imported energy. in addition, the stress tests showed how dependent many member states are on russian gas in particular and that they are in a very vulnerable position because we know that russia has taken its foreign policy options in energy policy. it's a significant change, because even during the cold war, this was not done. europe needs reliable partners, and that is why it is important that we work towards the negotiated ttip agreement with the usa, in which they will have their own share of energy. it would be particularly important for gas and liquefied natural gas. at the same time as we open up new energy routes to europe, it is important to strengthen our own internal colonization possibilities, so that we can get rid of the energy islands, as my colleague mr saudargas points out in his excellent report. the commission's energy union objectives, namely to increase energy self-sufficiency and energy efficiency, also offer many opportunities. but at the same time as we increase the share of renewable energy in europe, it is important to ensure that it can be done as market-oriented as possible.
mr president, good luck with your first session. energy is what drives our ark, but it's also what drives our entire society. but we import more than half of the energy we use, at over 400 billion euros a year. we need solutions for security, for trade, for jobs, for climate change. almost half of the energy consumed is spent on heating and cooling. it's a quarter to pay for traffic. the problem is that we in the eu do not have a target for renewable fuels for transport in just four and a half years. the use of biofuels and subsequent electrification would also make good sense from a safety point of view. heating is more than gas: it is biomass, waste, solar heat and geothermal heat. unfortunately, 40 percent of the heating is still done by fossil gas. renewable waste now makes up 25 percent of the total, compared with only 3 percent a couple of decades ago. cleaner technologies, storage and smart grid technologies will help energy efficiency and thus also sustainability and security. as the share of renewables increases, we need flexibility in the electricity market through a reform of the market model, including internal security of supply.
this conversation is over. the vote on the matter will take place on wednesday 10 june 2015. written declarations (rule 162)
the commission statement on the 'smart borders package' (2015/2614 ((rsp)) is the next item on the agenda.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, the free movement of persons is often mentioned as one of the greatest achievements of european integration from the point of view of an ordinary european citizen. however, the absence of internal borders benefits not only bona-fide travellers. it is vital for the credibility and acceptability of the schengen area that we effectively control our common external border. third-country nationals that cross the external border should be reliably identified and their right to enter the schengen area verified. the collected data should be stored in shared databases and be available to all relevant authorities. also, the same standards should apply to all border-crossing points. the manual checking of travel documents is both slow and unreliable, which leads to long queues and more mistakes at the borders. the smart borders package aims to address such challenges. the objective is to facilitate smooth and easy travel for the vast majority of travellers and, at the same time, make life more difficult for those who seek to abuse free movement inside the union. the ecr supports these objectives. my question to the commissioner is this: given the very large and ever-growing number of travellers into the european union, how do you see the future if we do not create a common eu-wide solution, such as smart borders? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– this is a political decision and has to be decided by us in the future. we have a national entry-exit system and we have law—enforcement access in my country, which works well. i believe it serves a legitimate purpose, so my answer is yes.
blue-card question. – ms vergiat, you say that europe should be an attractive destination, and i fully agree with you. but one of the objectives of this smart borders package is to facilitate smoother and swifter border crossing for the vast majority of third-country nationals who cross the external borders of the european union. creating longer queues at border-crossing points hardly makes europe a more attractive destination for anyone. do you not agree?
author.– mr president, this is something that i am sure we all are aware of, and the commission certainly has to be aware of what we are dealing with and talking about tonight. there have been so many questions raised during the past years that i do not think they need to be repeated in detail. but what really needs to be said tonight in this debate – and when we are putting these questions to the commission – is that for the first time we are witnessing a crucial and damning report from an independent supervisory committee consisting of five independent experts. their role in supervising the work of olaf is not just anything; it is absolutely crucial and essential to the credibility of the union in the eyes of eu citizens. therefore, we are asking you tonight not just what the commission has done, but what is the commission's doing? what is the commission doing to deal with the problems that clearly are present? the supervisory committee is calling into question its ability to conduct its work. this is not acceptable. we really need to see some action, so our main question tonight is: what is the commission doing to change this?
mr president, i would really like to know why some members of this precious, democratically-elected chamber are consciously misleading people who are watching this debate live. to say that olaf did not have a chance to be heard by the committee on budgetary control is an outright lie. (applause)it has nothing to do with truth. i absolutely want to make that clear to everyone in this room and around the world, and especially in europe, because over 500 million people – european taxpayers – are being held in contempt by this ridiculous answer from the commission tonight.
mr president, i propose to add a new short paragraph after paragraph 19, as follows: ‘stresses, in this respect, that the recently-adopted bill on undesirable foreign organisations that allows authorities to bar international ngos seen as threatening russia’s defence capabilities or constitutional foundations is a further worrying sign of the ongoing crackdown on civil society.’
mr president, it is even more worrying if colleagues from the extreme right are against this one. i propose that in paragraph 21 certain modifications be added: ‘the european parliament calls on the commission to propose legislation ensuring the full transparency of political funding and financing of political parties in the european union, in line with the recommendation of the council of europe with regard in particular to political or economic stakeholders outside the eu. we call for transparency.’ (applause)
mr president, i can guarantee that this is a call for the full transparency of all foreign funding for political parties. (applause)
in writing. ‒ the report rightly highlighted important points from the point of view of energy security, such as the need to diversify gas supply. the report highlighted the need to increase the lng terminal network as one way of diversifying import routes (paragraph 31). unfortunately, the section focused geographically on the mediterranean and black sea regions, while ignoring the potential of lng terminals in the baltic sea region for the development of security of supply, industrial competitiveness and cleanliness of maritime transport. i voted for the report and i regret that it has fallen. in preparing for the energy union, the baltic sea region must be kept in mind.
for the alde group mr president, the european games in baku are highlighting the human rights situation in azerbaijan. this was also the case when baku hosted eurovision in 2012. the human rights situation in azerbaijan has much to improve. i believe and hope that the hosting of the games in baku will contribute to the openness of the country and, in time, to human rights. sports competitions and cultural events are constantly held in countries where human rights violations are taking place. i do not believe in isolationism, but in cooperation, and human rights are best promoted through dialogue. it is appropriate that the european parliament should discuss human rights, such as the recent corruption allegations against fifa, and sport. it is difficult to think of a better forum for such a debate than parliament. the citizens of 28 countries are represented in the parliament. i understand very well that the international olympic committee and other sports organisations avoid taking a political stance. sports events are supposed to connect, not tear apart. i am against the death penalty, but if the death penalty were a barrier to international sporting events, we could not allow sports competitions to be held even in the united states. i'm not going to baku to watch these games, but i want to wish the organizers and the athletes good luck. i also hope that this will strengthen human rights in baku. a society is strong when it is fair to its citizens and respects the human rights of all. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer to the blue card question. parliament did not give the contest, it was decided by other bodies. but i hope that the debate on human rights will contribute in the long term and, i hope, also in the short term to the respect of human rights.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, every girl and woman has the right to decide about her own body. this is an indivisible and non—negotiable human right, and therefore the paraguayan authorities’ decision to force this girl to continue with a life-threatening pregnancy resulting from rape violates her rights under paraguayan and international human rights law. they fail to protect her and violate her right to life, to health and to physical and mental integrity, as well as her right to education, jeopardising her economic and social opportunities. i strongly urge the paraguayan authorities to meet their international obligations and protect human rights by ensuring girls have access to safe abortion, at least when their health and life are in danger and in cases of rape and incest. the eu cannot shy away from this situation. it should use all means to help this girl and, globally, all the other girls in the same situation.
madam president, i would like to apologise to mr pirinski for my language concerning him. mr pirinski, the reason for the language i used was that i think i know that you know better when you say that olaf was never given a chance to reply to the allegations that were made in the annual activity report of the supervisory committee. that is why i said what i said – but, having said that, i apologise for my language and i hope you accept the apology. (applause)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all i would like to say a big thank you to my colleagues, mr bullman and mr fernandes, and i would also like to extend that thank you to the co-chairs, mr arthuis and mr gualtieri. they have done a tremendous job, and i can assure everybody that spending the night here together with the commission and the council is not a very great erotic experience. commissioner katainen and georgieva have said that we share the same values and the same objectives. that is probably true for the commission and for parliament, but it is not true for the council. commissioner georgieva said that she is going to turn every stone to find new money, and i believe her. she is going turn every stone, and as soon as she finds something under that stone, the greedy hand of the council will try to get that money. that is the problem we have. we have a council which is counter-productive and which does not stand for european values. moreover, we are not negotiating with the member states – we are negotiating with coreper, and they are not able actually to move. we have a deep problem, a structural problem here, and we have to address it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer.– the very first problem we had with the process was that there was no new money and no way of getting the member states out of their corner. and that is the problem we are going to have in the future: with each annual budget we are going to have the same fight about getting some money just to repair what we could not fix during the negotiations. thank you for a very good question.
i would also like to congratulate commissioners katais and georgiou and all the negotiators in this parliament on the fact that we have reached a result that is very satisfactory to all parties involved in this important efsi. as we know, the european parliament has always been very strongly in favour of the creation of this fund for strategic investments. but above all, there was concern that these funds would squeeze out funding for horizon 2020, which is important for basic research, and funding for important transport projects. these negotiations certainly succeeded in allaying those major concerns. it is great that now the efsi is really getting going and we are getting a boost to investment in europe. for example, in my own region of finland, the efsi has already proactively decided to lend a large part of the very significant eur 1 billion investment in the forestry industry, which is directed precisely towards clean technologies, and we need more such investments in europe.
i welcome the fact that there is a public debate in the eu on how to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. unfortunately, we have not found a solution to the challenges posed by the global economy, which allows certain multinational companies to achieve a tax rate close to zero, and this also harms the taxpayers who are doing their job properly. one solution is proposed as a country-by-country reporting model, whereby companies would be obliged to disclose information on their taxes paid to the tax authorities. i personally believe that country-by-country reporting would have an impact on corporate tax compliance, as many companies want to protect their reputation as honest and socially responsible operators. but i would like to stress that eu initiatives must follow international developments, otherwise we can put european companies at a competitive disadvantage.
madam president, if this commission could do one meaningful thing under refit and on better regulation, it would be this common corporate tax base and a reform of our taxation systems. this is indeed one of the big obstacles to our growth and internal markets. it is an administrative burden for our companies, which act in various member states and need to comply with different taxation legislations. i am a bit bored of hearing all the blame about companies using aggressive tax avoidance and tax planning if we have offered it to them on a gold plate, even with private agreements, and then again with a system that encourages the use of a different kind of transfer pricing systems and different kinds of tax levels and tax accounting methods. let us stop thinking that if we can compete within the family and beat other member states with this kind of tax advantage, then it benefits those who think that it would be to their advantage, because we are all losing on this policy. we are losing up to eur 1 000 billion every year because of bad tax systems, tax avoidance and non-taxation. let us put an end to that. madam commissioner, i congratulate you on these proposals, which you know so well from your history, on the common corporate tax base. it is probably a wise idea to take things step by step, but i am a bit cautious about the time span being rather long, knowing that this commission and this election period have their limits. i would want to see a faster timetable for the actions so that this parliament gets access to all the necessary parts and different steps of this legislation. the same applies, on a basic level of timing, to transparency and country-by-country reporting, where i am quite convinced that the impact assessment could be done in a much shorter period of time. i do not want to start blaming and by-passing the commission on this, as i know that the biggest part of the problem in this debate lies within the member states. last but not least, why should we not count tax crimes as money-laundering crimes and combine real automatic exchange of information, at all income levels, by the taxpayer to the tax officer of each and every member state? if we did this we would already be going far. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – indeed it is a pressing factor, as indeed are the international recommendations. even though, obviously, those recommendations are never going to replace legislation, if we want to have a say in this area we have to act promptly and have our vision ready here within the eu.
madam president, my first option coming in here was to speak english, then i thought i could as a second option speak in my native swedish, but realising who is in the chair i have decided to speak finnish. arvoisa puhemies, näyttää siltä, että me pidämme verokilpailusta mutta hyvin erilaisista syistä. toiset haluavat enemmän tehokkuutta, toiset haluavat päästä eroon valtiosta kokonaan. tässä yhteydessä on kuitenkin kiinnitettävä erityistä huomiota yhteen asiaan. tutkimukset osoittavat, että pienet valtiot pärjäävät huonommin kansainvälisessä taloudellisessa kilpailussa. tämä saattaa johtua siitä, että niiden kotimarkkinat ovat niin pienet, että ne eivät riitä ikään kuin ponnistuslaudaksi kansainvälisessä kilpailussa. siitä syystä he yrittävät löytää paikkansa verokilpailun kautta. tämä on erittäin vaarallista ja erittäin huono kehityssuuntaus, ja siitä syystä meidän pitäisi ymmärtää, millä tavalla pienet ja suuret valtiot kilpailevat keskenään.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
the case is closed.
the explanations of vote shall be in writing.
the explanations of vote shall be in writing.
oral explanations of vote
the explanations of vote shall be in writing.
the explanations of vote shall be in writing.
oral explanations of vote
the explanations of vote shall be in writing.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 10.50 p.m.)
rapporteur.– mr president, i guess that all of us understand that you cannot overconsume your limits all of the time in the economic sector. as we know from the greek crisis, if you become overly indebted, sooner or later you are going to go bankrupt. with bankruptcy, it is very hard to get yourself up and running again. however, if you bankrupt nature, then it is not only twenty years of suffering – it may even be the end of the game. this is the background for the whole resource efficacy debate, because we are bankrupting the planet. each year, we are using up 1.5 planet’s worth of resources, and this figure is growing because there are more people, more needs for resources, more products and shortening life-spans of the products. it is not a question whether change is going to happen or not – it is a question of how it is going to happen. is it going to be an extreme crisis – economic, welfare, health and humane – or can we create a true business opportunity out of this change? indeed, this is a huge paradigm shift and a huge systematic change that we are facing. but while europe is the most resource-dependent of all regions, we can benefit from resource scarcity or be hit hardest by it. we need to get the things right now. this enormous, hidden business opportunity can only be created by new business ecosystems and business models, like the lease economy and businesses working together in the zero—waste society, where the ends of some processes are resources for someone else. but to make this happen, legislative, economic, information and cooperative actions are needed. firstly we need a proper set of sub- and whole indicators and targets. it is like accounting in companies: if you do not have harmonised, agreed and binding methodology, you lose all comparability and there is no point at all to the whole effort. we need a review of existing legislation, including financial legislation, because our linear history has ensured that our legislation fails to incorporate the value of ecosystem services. there are a lot of points that actually prevent the new business models of the circular economy. we need a product policy designing out of waste, and so we need an ambitious broadening of the scope and revision of the ecodesign directive. we need to make this happen soon, because we need predictability for investors in our economies. we need a renewal of the base directive, and we need a special focus on certain areas, such as sustainable buildings, since buildings represent 40% of our energy consumption. as this is a very slow—moving sector, we need to start by taking the decision now to make our building sector sustainable within 30 years. and, mr president, we need to support all this through our public procurements possibility for a pull effect, because that is 20% of our gdp.
mr president, madam pietikäinen has written a very good report, but we still have some doubts. firstly, by regulating the streams too strictly in a fast-moving technology, we – and not the market – are picking the winners and the losers. secondly, technology is easily one or several steps ahead of law-making. the smartest stream today may not be the smartest stream tomorrow, but the laws we will write may prevail, even if they are not the smartest. thirdly, the production of and demand for certain waste streams do not always match a hierarchy. the streams are not always exhausted at the most preferable level. finally, and perhaps more fundamentally, all streams are actually a problem of definition. what are waste residues and end products in essence? we know that the report that madam pietikäinen has written is going to be waste by the end of the week, as will this speech.
mr president, i very much welcome the report by mr pietikis on the circular economy, which is not really about downshifting or light recycling, but the advent of the circular economy is a real breakthrough, which will change both the way we consume and produce, improve productivity, reduce the environmental burden considerably, save resources, whether we are talking about money, food or natural resources. there are applications everywhere. today, i would like to highlight in particular our current patterns of food production and consumption, which are based on a completely unsustainable basis. in western lands, as much as 30 to 50 percent of food never reaches the plate, and three times as much food is thrown away as would be needed to eliminate hunger from the world. a real development policy action, if you will. and we're still paying for throwing food in the trash. the circular economy aims not only at the efficient use of natural resources but also at creative solutions for the recovery of food waste and surplus food. we need swift and ambitious action. our people, our economy, our environment, they're not waiting. (the speaker promised to answer the question on the blue card under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the answer to the blue card question. thank you for the good question. of course we need innovation, but above all we need common sense. i would say that in this world we are bringing a piece of heaven to the people who are starving and looking at the mountain of food that we europeans, for example, are throwing away today. all that is required is common sense, not a lot of innovation, but the ability to put our consumption in reasonable proportions.
mr president, the circular economy report by parliament is a step towards a more sustainable way of producing and consuming goods. a circular economy is a shift towards using resources within the limits of the earth's carrying capacity. i welcome this circular economy report, but with a few reservations. they are mainly concerned with setting strict numerical targets at the stage when this large package is being pushed in. i agree with the urgency of the matter, but the evaluations behind the figures must be opened up. the child must not go with the washing water. my second reservation is the strict registration of the so-called cascade use of biomass. increasing the rate of processing of products is an essential part of the circular economy, but the fine-tuning of the process is challenging. the euro is a good consultant, but the command economy has not worked in world history and it does not work now.
mr president, the over-consumption of the earth's resources is a problem we all share, and one which the circular economy is also trying to solve. we need to raise awareness among all people. recycling, maintenance, repair and reuse of equipment saves raw materials and money in industry and households alike. as an example, i would also like to emphasize the responsibility and obligation of industrial companies to produce high-quality and durable household appliances and other equipment. over the decades, i have found that many new and modern devices do not last as long as their counterparts did 20 or 30 years ago. i've been thinking about all the reasons why this might be happening. do industrial companies make a lot of profit selling spare parts, so they use certain weak parts in products that have to be replaced a few years after the equipment is put into service? i believe that today's technology could make even better household appliances than those of decades ago. i think we should consider extending the warranty periods of household appliances for a few years, for example, in order to improve their quality and extend their service life.
rapporteur.– mr president, first of all i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs and other colleagues for the very good and constructive cooperation and work, without which this result would not have been possible. secondly, a couple of comments on this discussion. to those of my colleagues who have fears over a regulation and think that voluntary actions alone would work, here are just a few reminders: why do we have regulations on ownership and paying taxes? why do we not just say, ok, taxes are a useful thing, so let us leave things on a voluntary basis so that everybody pays their right share, right? or why cannot civilised people just agree among themselves whether they drive on the right or left, or whether they own something or they do not? why do we need regulations on that? because regulations give legal certainty. we do not have that legal certainty at this point about our circular economy, like we do not have it about the digital agenda or data security, because these phenomena did not exist about 20 years ago. but we have a lot of wrong kinds of incentives and regulations, and if we do not tackle this, nothing will happen. thirty years ago we did not live in caves. we did already have the first indicators of resource efficiency. the interface carpet company started leasing carpets, and we had a whole concept about resource efficiency and inefficiency, and the need to make the economy circular. look what we have achieved in 30 years – very little. alongside the good examples and knowledge, the use of resources has only been increasing. 30 years from now we will be living in 2050, and either we will need four planets or we decrease the use of resources from those of one and a half planets to within the limits of one planet. the choice is for now, and it is our choice. we have the information and we need legal certainty and regulation to make it happen.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control.– mr president, first of all let me salute the rapporteur for this very extensive report. there is hardly anything that is not mentioned, and it is very balanced. but i will not use my sixty seconds just for that. the most important thing that we have to understand is that we are not just talking about the price of milk or counting who gets how much – we are not counting milk drops. we are talking about a whole culture, and the disadvantaged regions in europe deserve special attention. this has been pointed out in the report as well. in the committee on budgetary control report that i drafted, i pointed out that that the price evolution does not actually seem to be homogeneous across member states, and that the evolution of milk prices in real terms and its causes could have been strongly highlighted originally. this is something that we really have to pay attention to.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank james nicholson, who drew up the report. in this report he raises very important issues. we all know that james nicholson is an expert in this field, as we have all been following the work of this parliament for some time. i believe that commissioner hogan will also listen to mr nicholson's views on the agricultural and dairy sectors. i also think that the opinion of the committee on budgets, chaired by mr petri sarvama, was very linear. it is very important that the milk market is closely monitored and analysed in parliament. it is important to us finns that the report has given particular attention to the outermost and lessfavoured regions. these regions are the first to suffer from the fall in milk prices, as the abolition of quotas leads to an increase in production and thus often also to a fall in the price level. if, on the other hand, the price level is low, the profitability of milk production will be reduced, especially in less-favoured areas, as production costs are higher than in areas with better natural conditions. i am also pleased that the report emphasizes the role of cooperatives.
mr president, first of all i would like to express my satisfaction that we are now going to be able to vote on the ttip agreement. i think we are also coming to an understanding. the single line of parliament will make it easier for commissioner malmström to move forward. i have heard this debate and i have the feeling that both the extreme right and the extreme left have read a different report from the one mr langes has presented. such marvelous things have been brought to light. i hope, however, that we will stick to this report by mr langen and that we will then vote on it today. one of the good speeches was by marietje schaake. he said some very important things about me in this case. but there is one point i would like to make. i am a little concerned about the geographical indications and the fact that they may have been given excessive weight. i hope that this will not mean that we will have to be too flexible on import issues, for example, in relation to agricultural products. we have to look out for ourselves, but we also have to look at the big picture. the most important thing in the big picture is that we can create growth and this agreement can provide that. good luck and success to commissioner malmström. good luck with the negotiations.
mr president, i am in favour of the transatlantic trade and investment partnership. we need a good deal with the united states. however, the investment protection mechanism envisaged as part of the agreement raises more questions than it provides solutions. i do not believe that the current legal protection systems in the us and eu member states are so flawed that such an investment protection mechanism is needed. if there are so many shortcomings, then there are serious problems with the whole rule of law. the eu and the us currently have a trade volume of several trillion euros. investors on both sides are either risk-averse or they're confident they'll get a fair deal. it is difficult to imagine why democratic societies would hand over power to private actors in this way when it is designed. i hope that this matter will be resolved and that an agreement will be reached. i wish commissioner malmström strength and good luck. this is a big and important issue and the investment protection agreement is the most problematic part.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for their report. i'm here today with a little bit of a mixed bag. we are living in a situation where unambitious objectives, economic recession and an initially too loose allocation of emission allowances have led to a huge surplus of emission allowances. the market economy for coal was not operating optimally. now we have reached this corrective situation with regard to the emissions trading system. it may not be the fulfillment of the dream i had of correcting the situation, but it is a step forward. that is why i see myself as being prepared to vote in favour of the motion, because i am a realist and perhaps even an optimist in the sense that i would rather repair the old than spend my time looking for entirely new crafts. i know that there are many members of my own group who do not see this as a solution and who do not believe that we can make the ets a viable instrument by fixing it. i hope that the debate does not end here, on these questions, but that we find solutions so that we can meet the climate targets... (the speaker interrupts the speaker)
the following debate is scheduled: question for oral answer to the council, by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs, on the european agenda on security (o-000064/2015 b8-0566/2015); and question for oral answer to the commission, by claude moraes, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties and justice and home affairs, on the european agenda on security (o-000065/2015 b8-0567/2015).
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 9 july 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by laura agea, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states (com(2015)0098 – c8—0075/2015 – 2015/0051(nle)) (a8-0205/2015), and– the report by jean lambert, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the green employment initiative: tapping into the job creation potential of the green economy (2014/2238(ini)) (a8—0204/2015).
mr president, more and more developing countries, especially those with lower middle incomes, are actively declaring their desire to break free from aid. we can say that this has happened, because in zambia, for example, the share of development aid in the budget is only 2.6%. but it is also true that developing countries need help to raise their own funds. we need official development assistance to help developing countries improve their tax collection, for example. i hope that in addis ababa we will have a breakthrough and that a concrete programme will be drawn up on how to take this a step further. now that we have luxembourg as the presidency, which has fulfilled its obligations in terms of this official development assistance, so that you are indeed setting an example for most other eu countries, i believe that you will want to work even more vigorously to ensure that other eu countries also fulfil this obligation. i regret to say that the nordic wind is blowing cold: finland has now suddenly decided to cut its development aid by 43%, and the danish government is also planning major cuts. this does not bode well for the common objectives of the eu.
in writing. the greeks voted 'no' on sunday by a clear majority, even though the question itself was unclear to many. if the question is unclear, the answer is difficult to interpret. the vote does not indicate that the greeks want to leave the monetary union. the future, however, is entirely in the hands of the greeks as to what terms will be negotiated in the future. the euro area has achieved resilience and stability and has fared better than in previous years in the current crisis, but reforms are still ongoing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. uncertainty and postponement of decisions are the most destructive to the confidence and investment on which future growth depends. greece has suffered terribly in recent years, and leaving the euro does not improve its prospects. greece cannot escape its economic ties with the rest of europe and the euro countries, with which it is bound either to common growth or to continued uncertainty.
in writing. the irresponsible actions of the left government in greece have been sad, indeed horrifying to watch. as recently as last autumn, the greek economy and employment showed signs of improvement. as a result of syriza's accession to power, tax collection has stagnated and capital flight from the country has accelerated. on top of that, the government defaulted on its debt and walked away from the negotiating table. the banks have had to close. unfortunately, the people who suffer most from the foolishness of the greek government are the ordinary citizens. europe has tried to help in every way, but now the measure is coming full circle. the greek government must now take responsibility for the country's economy. without additional credit, the country will not survive, but without genuinely significant reforms now, no further credit can be granted. greece can only survive through big, tough reforms. without them, the additional funding and the euro area membership cannot continue.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the srebrenica commemoration (2015/2747(rsp)).
i have received seven motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by esther herranz garcía, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a council regulation laying down maximum permitted levels of radioactive contamination of food and feed following a nuclear accident or any other case of radiological emergency (com(2013)0943 – c7—0045/2014 – 2013/0451(nle)) (a8—0176/2015).
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on thursday 9 july 2015.
the next item is the report (a8-0209/2015) by julia redan, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the implementation of directive 2001/29/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 22 may 2001 on the harmonisation of certain aspects of copyright and related rights in the information society (2014/2256 (ini)).
madam bergeron has left the chamber before replying to the blue-card question.
mr president, the change in the situation since the 2001 information society directive is well illustrated by the fact that when the perception spread that parliament was going to restrict the right to panorama in some way, 500 000 people appealed to us not to do so. in 2001 it would have been unheard of for so many people to have been informed so quickly of what was happening in parliament. but we can tell everyone that the outcome will be happy in the sense that we are leaving this matter to national decision-making at this stage. the fact that attention has been paid to such a detail, which is accompanied by a great deal of misplaced fear, is also a proof of the extreme balance of this report. it will be a very good basis for future legislative work. it is indeed surprising that the committee has been able to achieve such a good compromise between the rights of producers, consumers and the various intermediaries. that compromise should not be undermined by a vote now.
mr president, i believe that the right to landscape is a right, like a fundamental right. the requirement to limit the use of public spaces, even for commercial purposes, is, in my view, a thing of the past. i have received a lot of feedback on this report, especially from young internet users, for whom the very idea of being pressured to restrict the use of public space seems impossible to understand. europe is suffering from high unemployment. the unemployment problem is particularly acute among young people, some of whom can find employment in creative sectors, for example by exploiting the limitless possibilities offered by the internet. the commission has also proposed that the european union should be able to provide a financial contribution to the european social fund, which is intended to help young people to find employment. in recent years there has been much talk of better and lighter regulation. i hope that this objective will be achieved and that the right to land will in future be a right more broadly based on the fundamental right than it is today.
mr president, i think the chair is doing a brilliant job this afternoon, trying to make this happen as fast as possible. so presuming that they do not want to spend the whole of thursday afternoon in this chamber, i would just ask everyone to raise their hands when the president asks for a vote.
in writing. ‒ mr president, the us-eu free trade agreement, when it comes into force, will open up many new opportunities for european businesses. the aim must be to achieve an ambitious agreement that improves export opportunities, particularly for smes, and at the same time the international competitiveness of the eu as a whole and its member states. the ttip is estimated to increase eu trade by up to €122 billion a year and to create millions of jobs in europe. this growth spurt is what europe needs. it is particularly important to remove trade restrictive norms and barriers, thereby facilitating access to the us market for european goods and services. i thank all the negotiators for the common vision now found among the groups for the further development of the free trade negotiations. this strong support from the european parliament will put trade commissioner cecilia malmström and the other negotiators in a good position to take the negotiations forward. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly aspects of the environment. the ttip agreement has not only economic but also a great deal of political significance. the united states is an important partner for us europeans. if we can agree on common standards and principles now on a transatlantic basis, this will probably guide all world trade in the future.
in writing. – i understand the uneasiness that many feel regarding the market-based mechanism of ets. i would also personally prefer a straightforward carbon tax, if we were to build a completely new system from scratch. however, the ets has been the main instrument of european climate policy for ten years, and it is widely accepted within the industry. the eu emissions trading system is the largest ets programme in the world, and, although it has structural shortcomings, we have been reaching our targets of reducing our greenhouse gas emissions so far. now the question is how to fix the system so that it will function efficiently also in the future. i would rather fix the way the system works and keep up the good work to push for really ambitious 2030, 2040 and 2050 targets. the modifications, as adopted in the trilogue with the key contribution of the ec, could help the ets implementation to prevent increasing co2 emissions and the misuse of allowances by member states.
in writing. ‒ it was easy to vote in favour of this commission proposal. the global fund helps many regions that are losing significant jobs in the turmoil of the world. unfortunately, no region of the eu has been spared this development. finland has previously received funding from the european globalisation adjustment fund for perlos, nokia and stx finland. we were unusually unanimous in our support in the committee on employment, as were the other committees as the debate progressed. the eur 1,36 million received by broadcom communications is needed for the oulu region. the region has already suffered losses and, among others, nokia engineers who had already been re-employed were again unemployed. ict jobs have been in a state of flux. broadcom and its two subcontractors made a total of 568 redundancies, including more than 400 in oulu. one can only imagine what such a sudden change will do to the area. the ict sector is important in today's world and training and support for the unemployed, when well supported and effectively managed, can lead to new employment relationships, businesses and innovative ideas.
in writing. ‒ the circular economy creates significant business opportunities for european companies. many of the resources we now use carelessly are running out. in particular, in developing regions with young and growing populations, consumption is also increasing. it is essential that in future the existing resources are used more efficiently than at present. in europe, raw materials account for 40% of production costs. especially high-tech products require rare, imported minerals. i would like to thank sirpa pietikä about the good work done by the rapporteur, and at the same time i would encourage vice-president katais to draw up a circular economy package so that we can move forward strongly. at its best, the circular economy is a new economic model where materials and value circulate and are created with value added services and intelligence. in my own country, finland, it has been estimated that the circular economy could add up to over two billion euros a year to the economy. at european level, the circular economy would increase gdp by 1% per year. the bioeconomy is an important part of the circular economy. it is of particular importance for the achievement of the climate objectives. however, it should be noted that requiring the use of cascades in a circular economy would create many problems, as waste and litter are difficult to define. today's waste can be tomorrow's raw material. it is the uncertainty of the regulatory environment that is currently significantly slowing down investment in europe. we need to adopt a pro-business approach. if the ecodesign directive is extended, it should be done in cooperation with companies. it is not appropriate to set common limit values, but rather to draw up objectives and indicators for each sector. there must be sufficient scope for adopting best practice.
the question of the blue card. mr president, recent speeches have focused on the protection of animals. however, i would like to see the european parliament take account of minor traditions as well, as the inuit exception has been appreciated here. but we also have a few very small islands in the baltic sea, which also have a thousand-year tradition of using seal skins. if we say that this is animal protection, then this does not prevent the hunting of animals, nor does it prevent the rescue of those caught in nets. this only prevents the seal skin from being used commercially. at its worst, this position is that once a seal is shot into a rock, it's no longer intensive to take it off and use that skin and in the process lose the traditional profession.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i thank the commission for being represented here. i think i can stand up for animal welfare and for the principles of the wto, but what i have difficulty with is telling people who live on åland, who live on the small islands, who live in estonia or sweden or on the coast, where i live, in österbotten. there is only one school in finland that teaches how to use this production. it's something we learned a thousand years ago, and now it's something only the inuit have. it's very hard to go back home and say you were too small, we didn't hear you. i would therefore also ask the commission, now that you have promised to make this exception for research, could it also be for museums? who decides that inuit are equal? could it include those who can show that they have had the tradition for a thousand years?
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on tuesday, 8 september 2015. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report by mrs laura ferrara, drawn up on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (20132014) (2014/2254(ini) a8-0230/2015).
madam president, there is no doubt that ict is a human rights issue. it is ‘both and’– it is both an advantage for people to communicate and spread knowledge of human rights violations, but it has also become something of a trap for people who defend human rights. mrs schaake has produced an excellent report which we have to defend in the vote. i think we should be ready to recognise that the complicity of some enterprises, including some from the eu area, has greatly damaged our reputation by creating serious human rights violations in iran, in uzbekistan, in belarus and in other countries, and i am talking about some telecommunications providers, that is astellia, sonora, nokia, siemens. i think we also have to defend the point in the report which says that the service providers and the network providers should publish reports about their connections between themselves and oppressive regimes. we have also to protect whistle—blowers.
rapporteur.– madam president, we need efficiency. checking 40 million transactions and other common agricultural policy controls costs around eur 4 billion a year. as the rules and regulations governing the cap have only got more diverse and complex it is expected that monitoring costs of the almost eur 58 billion cap budget will only grow if nothing is done. so as i said, the cost is currently estimated at eur 4 billion at member state level. the farmers face a never-ending mountain of paperwork which has to be submitted to national officials, with increasingly complex regulations and control measures. a finnish farmer illustrated the absurdity perfectly by displaying next to each other all of the official forms demanded annually by the national authorities. the documents ended up stretching over 33 metres in length. that is approximately the length of two full rows of epp members in this chamber and that is a long, long line. if we do not manage to streamline the cap and ease the burden of controls on farmers, we cannot hope to attract new entrants to agriculture. it will be a struggle to even retain the current beneficiaries. but this is not just a matter of agriculture. complex rules and controls of those rules inevitably mean that taxpayers’ money is not spent efficiently. even worse, with inefficiency comes uncertainty about correct and responsible use of eu funds. the promotion of performance-based controls can be an answer to some of those questions. the report at hand insists that the definition of performance in respect of controls should primarily entail the quality of the member states’ checks and administrative systems: that is, the efficiency, consistency and reliability of the managing and certifying authorities. in order to ease the burden on the beneficiaries, the authorities should aim to organise on-site checks in a way that would not subject the farmer to multiple annual on-site checks by the national authorities, the commission or the court of auditors. this should be done by advancing and implementing the famous single audit scheme that we have been waiting for too long. furthermore, the report advocates identifying the best and worst performing member states in its policy area, with the best performing states being rewarded with a reduction in controls. now in some quarters this is being suspected of not being in accordance with the basic ideas of the union, but let me underline that this fear is in vain: it is indeed in accordance with those ideas. and a key part of this approach is the sharing of experience and best practices with the worst performing states. the key factor behind the thinking of the report is this: simplification is inevitable. the commission is on this path and so should this parliament be. your rapporteur has been driven by the ultimate desire to release farmers from behind their desks into the fields and simultaneously provide better control for taxpayers’ money.
in writing. animal cloning is a technology that most of us in europe dismiss. in the united states, technology is in unlimited use to clone not only the best strawberries but also your beloved pet dog. cloning has many ethical issues and causes suffering to animals animals born from cloned cells suffer significantly more deformations and premature deaths. the european union wants to ban the use of cloning technology in food production. however, there is disagreement about the technical implementation of the ban. the member states and the commission consider that the ban on the use of cloned animals in foodstuffs is the key to this. however, cloned animals themselves are expensive ingredients in italian salads, and the use of cloning in food production is based on the production of offspring. it is important that we in parliament demand that the ban be extended to future generations.
the rapporteur. mr president, the rules now before parliament are designed to prevent customs fraud more effectively than before. i think this is an important part of the work against the grey economy. this document, although it may seem a little technical, is nevertheless of great importance in principle. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has estimated that the european union and its member states lose €200 million in tax revenues every year due to cigarette smuggling alone. this is a large sum and it's important to get this done, for the sake of civic morality, but also for the sake of the economy. how do you track the smugglers? firstly, a common eu database and a modern container movement monitoring system are now being set up. digital technology will help us do that. it's possible to track the containers' movements, and that's important. as i said at the beginning, tobacco, alcohol and energy products are the areas where fraud is most common. however, the challenge was to secure sensitive export data and then to open this data to a common database. we reached a compromise. we have concluded that the export data to be recorded in the registers would be limited to excise goods, that is to say, tobacco and alcohol, which are essential. we're also speeding up fraud investigations. member states must provide immediate information and documents in cases of suspected fraud within four weeks. these data protection rules were also aligned with eu legislation. we have included a check clause which states that it will be possible to evaluate this whole thing in a couple of years. taken together, this will give the european anti-fraud office (olaf) a modern tool to combat fraud and increase the efficiency of investigations. this is a positive example of the new regulation, which, when implemented, will bring a significant amount of euros to the eu and member states' budgets. i am pleased that we have succeeded in producing good legislation to prevent fraud and protect sensitive export data. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the commission and the council for the very constructive cooperation.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would also like to thank parliament for its broad support and the commission for its cooperation. mr parker, of the efdd group, said that there was no need for such centralised systems. i think this is a good example of the fact that no country can prevent customs infringements on its own, but that it requires very good tools and strong cooperation and commitment. i was wondering about the efdd group's position, because i did not see a single shadow rapporteur from your group during the whole process who could have expressed his concern about possible problems during the negotiations. there are indeed two things that are new in a certain way. firstly, it is very important to take account of data security in all presentations. in this presentation, in particular, the protection of business secrets was central and we reached a good compromise. as mr kallas said, when the member states adopt, and they should adopt, this electronic system, it will speed up the investigation of these crimes, of possible suspicions and of crimes, which is very important. in other words, the digital revolution and the digital world can also help us to combat the grey economy and crime, if we want it, if the member states want it and if, for example, this report comes to fruition. thank you, everybody.
‒ the proposal to remove the mrm exemption is unfortunate. failure to take care of the products of permitted and necessary conservation hunting is not reasonable and a waste of natural resources. at the same time, it is important that the necessary protection hunting takes place, and the ban on trade in the products reduces the incentives for hunters to carry out the protection hunting. i have therefore voted against the motion.
mr president, we have just voted on the cloning of farm animals. the cloning technology has been invented, so the eu must have a legislative response to this. since the question involves highly evolved beings, animals, it requires very careful thought and ethical and moral reflection. i want to give cloning technology a chance, but i don't want to cause any suffering to the animals, so we need to think carefully about how we proceed. i voted for a rather difficult compromise, as we all did, and we must follow it up in a way that ensures the welfare of the animals.
madam president, the image of the drowned syrian child haunts us all and it is easy to get emotional. however, that image is not very representative. the vast majority of the asylum seekers coming to my country and many others are not syrian children, but young men from countries like iraq, somalia, western africa and even albania. they flee from poverty and unemployment, which is understandable, but we cannot afford this kind of immigration in these kinds of numbers. a relocation system is bad for europe itself, but it is also bad for the refugees of the world. should we use our resources on the lucky ones who make it to europe, or should we use them to improve the living conditions of the millions who will, in any case, remain in the camps? we must address the pull factors. the new government in denmark has drastically cut the benefits paid to immigrants and tightened the rules of family reunification. these are the kinds of measures that europe as a whole should implement without delay.
the next item is the report by mr eduard kukan, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the evaluation of the european year 2012 on active ageing and solidarity between generations (2014/2255 (ini)) (a8-0241/2015).
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van de camp, for his professional and constructive work. this is an important document for the tran committee and the result can be seen as a common vision of the committee's transport policy, which i hope the commission will take seriously. i continue to wonder whether the voice of the customer is sufficiently represented in our assembly halls and at our tables where transport policy is decided, which affects the mobility of all europeans. sometimes it seems that transport policy is only concerned with safeguarding the very traditional position of operators in the sector, rather than introducing new measures to ensure efficient, easier and even cheaper transport services for users. it is strange that we sometimes forget that the customer is the first priority, that we even forget to invite the industrial customer to the meeting to discuss the real needs of transport. we have to remember that infrared is only a small part of traffic, and there's actually a lot more going on over that infrared. we need smart solutions and resource efficiency in the entire transport system. it is sad that, even in the 2010s, it is easier for us to build a road and a tunnel through the giant mountains than to create together a regulatory environment that enables interoperable user-friendly services. the most effective measures to improve the efficiency of the transport system do not require a digging machine everywhere, but rather a paper shredder. a little less conversation, a little more action, please!
in writing. ‒ the refugee crisis is a human tragedy, but it also poses major challenges not only to border controls and free movement, but also to the ability of our societies to care for the weak and those in need. i am generally pleased with the proposals put forward today by the president of the commission. in order to deal with the acute crisis, it is fair and right that the responsibility for asylum seekers be shared more equally between member states. equally important, the commission has drawn up a list of so-called safe countries from which asylum seekers cannot seek to enter europe in the future. the number of applicants in need of protection is growing rapidly. the balkans and turkey must now seek to enter europe by other legal means. still, it must be remembered that there can be many causes of persecution. in some countries, where there is no actual war, people may still be in need of asylum because of their political opinions, religion, or sexual orientation. the internal border controls in the schengen area are not the right way to contain the crisis, although temporary and local reintroductions of border controls may be necessary to help the authorities manage the acute situation. instead, the reinforcement of returns, action to stop human trafficking and diplomatic efforts to achieve peace will be strengthened, which i consider important. an ageing europe needs immigration. successful integration of asylum seekers is a great opportunity for europe.
for the verts/ale group mr president, there is no doubt that the release of the six political prisoners is a positive gesture, as has already been stated by colleagues from the various groups. it is certainly true that the so-called critical, constructive approach of the commission and the foreign affairs council has been good, but we must now say that we must make steady progress on certain concrete cooperation initiatives to see whether belarus is really ready for democracy. above all, the upcoming elections are a test, because as we all remember, after the 2010 elections, the regime very brutally crushed the opposition. it is happening right now. we must not turn a blind eye to the fact that the opposition is still being harassed. when we went to minsk in june with the delegation led by mr zdrojewski, we heard the vice-president of the electoral commission openly denigrating the opposition members and declaring them unfit to be members of the electoral committees. i would also like to refer to areas of cooperation which i consider to be of vital importance when the commission and the external action service are planning programmes. the independence of the judiciary is a key factor which i believe we should try to promote through concrete cooperation. we have focused a lot on supporting the opposition and civil society, but we could also look at whether the authorities are prepared to allow residents, people, citizens to participate more in local decision-making. this is an area that was referred to in the eu delegation as a promising initiative that could be focused on. finally, mr president, belarus and azerbaijan are both members of the euronest assembly, but if we compare the situation, there is a shocking oppression going on in azerbaijan, which is much worse than... (the president cut off the speaker) (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
blue-card answer.– thank you for very much for this question. my answer to your clear question is clear: i think we have to consider the abolition of the death penalty as a priority and we should not compromise on that, and i hope that your party’s group will come to the same conclusion.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, currently it seems that there are huge differences in the application of eu law between member states. this may be caused by excessive bureaucracy, lack of knowledge or lack of transparency, and it all causes problems for citizens and businesses alike. but let me emphasise this: are we any better here inside the eu? we should lead by example and we should first clean up the mess in our own backyard. the application of eu law in eu institutions is indeed far from consistent and i am very glad that mr timmermans mentioned the law on administrative procedure which parliament is calling for, but i would very much like you, mr timmermans, to consider that rules binding all institutions would create a solid foundation for better application of eu laws and regulations. it would also reduce the need for ad hoc actions and would instead create a long-lasting system and generate foreseeability and stability which would benefit both citizens and businesses.
the author. mr president, i come from a country which, in its own and common european interest, has a strong will to find a solution so that we can also cooperate with russia in the future. the deadlock must be resolved so that we can cooperate more closely in the longer term, also on human rights and international law. we cannot turn a blind eye or turn our backs on these people, such as eston kohver, the estonian police officer who was abducted while on duty. every country simply has to abide by human rights treaties and international law!
for the verts/ale group mr president, the cases of kohver, sentsov and kolchenko have all been marked by a number of flagrant violations of international law. the borders have been violated, the judiciary has been used in a blatant way for political repression. as for the proposal for sanctions against individuals, i would be inclined to support them in this situation. we must have concrete means of dealing with such gross violations of human rights, when we can identify the individuals who have been involved in these activities. i would like to draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that we are going to be discussing azerbaijan in a moment and that there is a very blatant abuse of the judiciary for political repression in azerbaijan. i would also like to remind you that we must condemn all serious human rights violations in the same way, as mr corrao has just said. i have heard that the people's party wants to postpone the vote on the resolution on azerbaijan. i don't think that's fair. i don't think that's fair. i don't think that is fair. we must also condemn the serious human rights violations in azerbaijan.
mr president, the eu must defend human rights in all circumstances. i agree with the signatories of this resolution that the development of human rights in azerbaijan has been a cause for concern. but this resolution proposes sanctions, it proposes that the development of neighbourly relations should now be made conditional, it proposes a visa ban and so on. i think these are matters which should first be carefully prepared in committee and then decided here. it is not that we are suddenly voting on this subject in a small circle, with the strength of a few people, without good and proper preparation. i do not think that a resolution like this without good preparation will produce the result we want. it may satisfy some people that we have said all that, but we should only be interested in the fact that progress is being made in respecting human rights.
mr president, the commission and parliament are seeking to resolve the migration crisis by distributing the migrants coming to europe more evenly among the member states. this approach is wrong because it is attracting more and more people across the mediterranean. the risk of sea travel is attractive, because europe cannot effectively return even the most displaced people. what difference does it make that we are distributing 120,000 asylum seekers if the same number come to germany alone every month? the opening of legal routes is also not the answer, because europe cannot afford, socially and economically, the millions of people who want to come here. the pressure of migration is not a temporary phenomenon. the schengen area is also being destroyed by the migration and the asylum trade. if we do not have the political courage to protect our common external borders, one member state after another will start to close its own national borders, as we have seen.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about an acute crisis, but it is easy to make the crisis permanent, because climate refugees are just coming. we are determined by our attitudes and actions to build the kind of europe we want. i am for an open and humane europe. i do not want a europe, nor my home country finland, that does not help those in need. if we pursue a selfish policy, what will remain of europe and the eu? i don't have anything. europe needs rapid decision-making in an acute emergency, people cannot be left to die. the slow pace of government action has triggered a wave of civic activism, with private individuals and the third sector creating a safety net for those in need. europeans still have their hearts set on the right things. where people, the third sector and businesses are involved, politicians and public authorities must also be involved. human traffickers have turned this desperate situation into a billion-dollar business. we must act to ensure that people receive the appropriate assistance and that organised crime does not benefit from it.
now we will go to the speakers’ list. we will have a vote at 19.00. we will go speaker-by-speaker and will not use blue cards at all today.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
mr president, the agricultural sector has suffered a great deal in recent times, particularly in finland and the baltic states. the russian boycott has affected us. it can be said that throughout the entire period of finland's membership of the european union, agricultural producers have been the group of people who have suffered most economically from eu membership. and unfortunately, he still suffers. however, i would like to thank the commission in this context for the great effort it made, together with the luxembourg presidency, to get 500 million euro into the sector on a fast timetable. although this amount is small in comparison with the losses suffered by the agricultural sector, it is nevertheless a significant symbolic aid. the comparison of the milk price with the eu average for the national envelope allocation criteria was unusual in that it did not take account of price changes. a price reduction in cents would have been more fair. it is important that market support measures should be introduced alongside direct payments. i also hope that the commission will speed up the launching of a high-level working party on price derivatives futures markets. these can provide the commission with important information on future price developments and reduce volatility.
in writing. i voted in favour of the enf group's ttip proposal. i consider it so important that i did not base my vote on the fact that a group entirely representative of the extreme right made the motion itself. i think it is more important to scuttle the ttip negotiations.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's position on the commission work programme for 2016 includes many good emphases, such as developing less but better legislation, promoting digitalisation, favouring smes and highlighting european values and human rights. however, the document contains many statements which i cannot accept. it also sets out, inter alia, a permanent mandatory burden-sharing between member states for asylum seekers. i also do not accept the proposal by the so-called five presidents to establish a full economic union for the euro area, nor do i accept any other proposals which would lead to a reduction in the powers of the member states and a strengthening of supranational decision-making. for these reasons, i voted against my group's position on many points and in the final vote i voted in favour of rejecting the resolution.
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. president. - the debate is closed. this is of course an extraordinary procedure which is never really easy for the committee on budgets. in the previous term i was one of the shadow rapporteurs for the so-called troika report. we had an opportunity to see all the problems facing the greek economy. for that reason, i think it is a good gesture on the part of parliament to approve this proposal. at the same time, we know that greece, too, was subjected to pressure that was too great for its weak economy to bear during the refugee crisis. but at the same time i want to be very clear on one point. we occasionally receive reports on the way in which greece handles european money. in greece there is a turkish minority which sometimes feels that it is being treated badly, and we will be very careful in the follow-up to this so that the turkish minority gets its fair share of this money. i cannot help but say that we hope that this will be the spark on the bulgarian ice that will light a brighter future for greece.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 6 october 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by eleni theocharous, on behalf of the committee on development, on the role of local authorities in developing countries in development cooperation (2015/2004(ini)) (a8—0232/2015).
the question of the blue card. you spoke of refugees as if they were forces of nature, waves and whirlpools. refugees are people. you mentioned germany. is it not time to thank mrs merkel and germany for having this big thing better handled than many other countries? they're trying to organize jobs, credit cards, housing, and welcome people. i want you to find something positive about this.
mr president, my country, finland, expects to receive some 50 000 asylum applications this year, which is ten times the usual annual number. these are mostly young men from iraq and somalia and sub-saharan africa. they are coming because they were told by smugglers that they will get a free apartment, a well-paid job and a good life in europe. instead they find themselves in crowded reception centres, barracks or even tents, with nothing to do because there are no apartments and no jobs. the winter is coming and we will have tens of thousands of disappointed and frustrated young men on the streets. it is dangerous and irresponsible to allow this kind of uncontrolled migration to europe and within europe. we need better border controls and faster repatriation schemes on a european level.
in writing. ‒ this report dealt with specific measures to alleviate the situation in greece through structural and investment funds. the report itself rightly emphasizes the structural reforms which are necessary in greece. amendment no 2, on which i voted no, dealt with the options that greece should have. the amendment also calls for the possible departure from the euro area to be included. the greek euro is possible because the commission has plans in place. i believe that the solution to the problems of the euro area should be for all the countries in the euro area to adopt a national currency alongside the euro. as long as this is not possible, individual member states should be able to withdraw from it. that is why i support the position expressed in the amendment. however, i abstained because i do not think that this report was appropriate for taking a position on the future of the euro area.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, we found this act by volkswagen to be totally shameful and unacceptable, and a serious breach, against consumers and also against european environmental legislation. as 11 million cars and 11 million car owners are subject to fraud, the european people will be heavily affected as citizens, because of the very harmful health effects and excessive air pollution, and also as consumers. the falsified results in emissions tests have been reported to be up to 40 times the legal maximum. volkswagen is by far the biggest car manufacturer in the eu market, with a market share of around 25%, but it is not the only one. is this the only company which has this problem or are there other ones? what is the commission doing with these? are we only checking on volkswagen? european standards are for the protection of european citizens and consumers; however this massive fraud was revealed in the us market. what do you think, too, about the cop-21 climate conference in paris: how will it be affected and how will the commission advance the emission-test requirements to improve market surveillance in europe?
mr president, this scandal is of course an embarrassment for all european institutions. all the signs were there, but we have been dragging our feet and the story is very old. actually, it is an interesting case of past dependency on engine factories. the first turbocharged direct injection (tdi) engine was presented in 1989. the second tdi engine, which ought to have met our standards, was presented in 2008 but it did not reach the standard. so the tdi technology is not able to solve the problems, and that is going to be a huge problem for volkswagen in the future. but that is not the full story. during the past 10 years the discrepancy between test results and the real world has been increasing. we know that the european car industry is still a big, important job creator and a driver of economy, but it needs also to be a driver of ecology.
mr president, the volkswagen scandal has brought air quality and environmental issues into the debate in a completely new way. it is not a question of more or less than the health of the people. environmental legislation is designed to protect people. the finger of blame, alongside the car manufacturers, points to a lack of control. the problems of measurement have been ignored in europe. the european commission and the national authorities have at least suspected that the test results were not accurate. but nothing has been done. the commission has not paid any attention to international environmental agreements, nor to compliance with eu legislation. i hope this changes.
mr president, the volkswagen emissions scam is a real embarrassment to the whole european car industry. it is the largest industrial sector in europe, the largest employer and the largest investor in research and development. europe has had all the conditions to become the world leader in clean transport, and that objective has now been seriously undermined, and it will take time to restore credibility. it is clear that things must be investigated, that abuses must be tackled and that emissions measurements must be developed in the direction of real driving emissions testing. but at the same time it is important to remember that when we want to tighten up the technical requirements, we must be realistic and sufficiently long-term in our reforms. we in europe have wanted to cut co2 emissions specifically and we know that diesel engines are very good at it. in the united states, on the other hand, the strict restrictions are related to nitrogen oxides, and in these countries the diesel engine cannot cope with petrol, because diesel produces much more fine particles that are harmful to the air we breathe. the reforms that need to be made and the tightening of the rules in many ways are certainly needed, but they must be long-term in a way that also lets the industry know where the regulation is going. we know that if we want to see more industrial investment in europe, investors want longterm sustainability and legal certainty for their operations. product development is a very long-term job. we already have a lot of alternative fuels in europe, sustainable biofuels, hydrogen engines and we can electrify transport. the important thing is that we as political decision-makers are as technology-neutral as possible, that we only set targets and that the car manufacturers themselves can see which technology is best suited to achieving that goal.
in writing. the volkswagen emissions fraud is a stark indication of the failure of eu market surveillance. the european commission has blamed the scandal on the member states, which must ensure that there are no cars on the market that are being marketed on false grounds. it is estimated that air pollution causes 400 000 premature deaths in the european union. one of the most important sources of emissions is transport. for this reason, emission limits for nitrogen oxides (no), particulate matter (pn/pm), carbon monoxide (co) and hydrocarbons (ch) have been defined for passenger cars, vans and lorries through euro standards. in addition, a maximum emission limit for greenhouse gas carbon dioxide has been set from 2012. it has long been known that there are large differences between official laboratory measurements and actual traffic measurements. for example, the emissions of nitrogen oxides from diesel cars in traffic have been seven times higher than official laboratory measurements. the volkswagen case has involved intentional manipulation of test results. the commission needs a stronger role in the supervision of cars already on the market. this would enable the commission to intervene more effectively in the case of non-compliant products circulating on the eu market.
madam president, we have been discussing air quality for almost the whole day, and different aspects of it. that shows a bit of concern, and not without due reason. just before i left for strasbourg, i saw an interesting note back in finland which said: ‘the cleanest air in europe can be breathed in finnish lapland.’ that is, of course, no coincidence, as there is a very sparse population: less than two persons per square kilometre. having clear air is important, but it is not everything in life. in this case we have a fairly balanced compromise which ensures that installations in all member states make equal efforts to combat air pollution. however, we still have a disturbing tendency to find one-size-fits-all solutions, and again lapland is a good example. most members of the commission and the council probably know that we have cold winters in lapland. they have seen santa claus coming in his sledge. that is all for today, and good night.
mr president, an important subject at this late hour. there is an urgent need to improve european air quality, which has not improved in ten years. every year, there are too many respiratory problems and premature deaths. people living in cities can't choose the air they breathe. the result is a good compromise and shows that it is possible to make common rules for different areas. the air quality in certain parts of europe is clearly worse than in other parts. i was disappointed that we could not get the most polluted areas to take more radical action to improve air quality. on the other hand, i welcome the final compromise, which will clean up the air in the region and allow longer transition periods for those who use renewable biofuels or are district heating installations. now the benefits and costs are better balanced. i also thank the negotiators for taking into account the cold winter conditions. it is important not to be in a situation where low-impact backup power plants have to be shut down on a fast schedule. and finally, to clean technology. we can help in the common market by promoting these things.
mr president, at this stage of the debate it is good to repeat the cruel figures: a quarter of a million dead, a million wounded, four to six million people have been displaced and, globally, one in four refugees is from syria. here is the root cause, the root cause of the european migrant and refugee crisis. it's just what's required here. the european union must now show leadership and we must put pressure on the united states and russia to find a solution. the idea of mr howitt and the example of diplomacy on the iranian issue showing that progress can be made on this issue also. the european crisis management policy is inconsistent. on the one hand it is true that europe is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid, but on the other hand european weapons technology and european weapons are being taken away. on the other hand, they do build walls. we must let go of inconsistency!
the question of the blue card. thank you for your analytical speech. i was a little puzzled by the deep pessimism you had about finding diplomatic solutions. do you see any possibility of a constructive role, like iran, that russia could play in this as well?
in writing. the regulation of emissions from small and medium-sized combustion plants covers a power category that has been missing until now. in this sense, closing the regulatory loophole is a good thing and clarifies the situation. it is also good that during the parliamentary debate the commission's proposal was amended to take better account of the eu's objectives to encourage the use of renewable energy, especially in areas where air quality is already good and meets who recommendations. air quality shall be considered as a whole, in addition to individual point source emissions. we cannot in future bypass, for example, better controlled and more stringent regulations on transport. in today's world, clean air is not a given. air quality regulation must be careful not to use a straightforward and overly simplified analysis, whereby all costs of poor air quality are not included in the calculations. we still have a long way to go to apply the polluter pays principle more effectively and to take account of negative externalities. all eu governments have a legal obligation to improve the state of the environment and to promote the health of their citizens.
madam president, quite rightly the capital markets union initiative is one of the key initiatives of the commission at the moment. we all know that we are a very capital-poor region compared with some other regions and very dependent on our innovation and growth and on bank lending. and if we want to grow, and if we want to put our efforts into innovation, we need a common capital market union and much better efforts on raising private assets for investment. there are four points that i would like to raise in this context. firstly, this is an issue about european fund structure, starting from venture capital to private investors, where we would need better initiatives at european level on the funds and incentives for creating those, plus linking public investments in the longer term, like the european fund for strategic investment and national funds, in terms of fund structure. this is essential because quite often our upper limit of funds is below the lowest level for, for example, major asian or chinese investors. the second point that should be further developed from this capital markets union paper is investor protection. if we are not more open – more of a level playing field – on investor protection in europe, it is difficult to see how we can reach more private equity, especially from private individuals in this field. what that means is understanding and transparency – for example, through information leaflets for whatever type of investors in relation to stranded assets such as the ‘carbon bubble’. then, last but not least, i would like to raise the need to create a kind of highway for our smes and small start-ups, to start raising private capital, with regulation requirements that increase gradually and lead to smooth transition to our exchanges, as nowadays the exchange step is too high for quite a number of our companies. so this is an issue that needs to be thought through more carefully.
the debate is closed.
the rules of procedure allow certain signs and this is being clarified.
i would like to say on this point, as on the previous one, that the rules of procedure allow certain signs and that this matter will be clarified. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report by mr antonio tajan, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on payment services in the internal market, amending directives 2002/65/ec, 2013/36/eu and 2009/110/ec and repealing directive 2007/64/ec (com ((2013) 0547 c7-0230/2013 2013/0264 cod)) (a8-0266/2015).
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 8 october 2015. written declarations (rule 162)
the following debate is scheduled: giovanni la vian, györgy hölvény, tibor szanyi, nikolay barekov, gerben-jan gerbrandyn, merja kyllösen, benedek jávor and piernicola pedicin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the oral question to the council on the lessons learned from the red sea disaster five years after the disaster in hungary (o-000096/2015 - b8-0757/2015); and giovanni la vian, györgy hölvény, tibor szanyi, nikolay barekov, gerben-jan gerbrandyn, merja kyllösen, benedek jávor and piernicola pedicin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the oral question to the commission on the lessons learned from the red sea disaster five years after the disaster in hungary (o-000097/2015 - b8-0801/2015);
for the gue/ngl group mr president, five years have passed since the tragic event and there is still much to be done in the management of environmental issues in mines throughout europe. there are still gaps in legislation and its application. even in our understanding of the current state of the mine waste ponds, there are complete gaps. so it seems that we have learned very little from the events of five years ago. it is therefore appropriate to ask both the council and the commission what has been done and what is planned in the coming years, for example, to improve the safe treatment of waste water from mines. the floating jellyfish in mine basins are like a slow- turning screw that drills a hole in the rim of the basins. preventing accidents is the best way to take care of people and the environment and to ensure that accidents like the one in hungary never happen again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, like the previous speaker, i also want to emphasise the call for all charges against andy hall to be dropped. he is a workers’ rights defender and a uk, and thus an eu, citizen. human rights defenders must have the possibility to expose human rights violations. andy hall contributed to a finnwatch report in 2013, which showed that labour abuses and slavery—like practices are a reality in the activity of a thai pineapple wholesaler, natural fruit. he should be rewarded for this, not threatened with seven years in prison. his next hearing will be held on 19 october 2015. the high representative should now condemn the judicial harassment of andy hall and the eu should demand that thailand investigate the allegations against natural fruit. the eu should provide financial support for andy hall’s legal defence, just as he received support as a human rights defender in 2013. finally, the eu should find out whether natural fruit is still continuing to export to the eu, and should ensure that consumers have the right to know the origin of products.
madam president, when in 1998 we recorded the warmest year in modern history, there was still an easy way out. at that time we could explain that this was just an outlier in statistics and we could go back to normality and not worry about the future. when we look at the statistics of global warming and the temperature in the world today, we see that during the last 10 years we have had a steadily rising tendency. there is no longer an easy way. but we have one problem, which has already been alluded to by other speakers, namely how to finance it. with an unstable tax base, we see a tendency for member states to use income from emission rights to substitute a tax base which does not function. we have to fix it.
madam president, i would like to call on the eu to be very strict in endorsing a human-rights-based approach to climate policies. this is an important aspect of climate policy as we need to make sure that climate mitigation activities, including climate financing, do not cause environmental and social harm to people, including the impact on indigenous peoples and their environment and livelihoods. many multilateral development banks do have such safeguards on environmental and social impact, but unfortunately the clean development mechanism (cdm) does not have any. in this respect, close to 100 organisations and several meps have written to the cdm board to make sure that they will put in place such safeguards on human rights in their policies. the un special rapporteur on human rights and the environment endorsed this letter just a couple of days ago.
on behalf of the ecr group.– madam president, we should not debate anti-semitism and islamophobia simultaneously because they are not symmetrical phenomena. in today’s western europe, anti-jewish hate crime, be it violence or hate speech, is usually perpetrated by muslims, not by neo-nazis. the deadly attacks in brussels, toulouse and elsewhere are only the tip of an iceberg. in many european cities, jewish communities must spend enormous sums on physical security. many jews consider emigrating because of everyday harassment. anti-semitic hatred is preached in many of the most popular mosques and other muslim institutions in europe, as has been revealed by the media and the authorities. the constant portrayal of muslims as victims only makes islamic anti-semitism a sensitive subject – which in turn makes it much more difficult to do something about it.
in writing. ‒ action is needed to stop climate change. ambitious eu targets are needed, but we need partners with sufficient strength to do the job. the consequences of climate change are both harmful and costly. we know that extreme weather events are going to increase. they force people to move from areas that are already suffering from poverty and high population growth. 2014 was the warmest year in our history. despite the challenges, goals must be realistic. europe cannot respond to climate change on its own. our share of global greenhouse gas emissions is less than 10%. it is essential to involve other countries and regions. otherwise, the good intentions of europe will be turned upside down and climate change will accelerate. this is what happens if the carbon leakage from europe increases as a result of overly stringent commitments. and we'd lose our jobs. so far, only the european union has introduced comprehensive emissions trading. the future revision will have to strike a balance between the free allocation of carbon leakage areas and the actual reductions in emissions. there are positive signs of the emergence of an international climate agreement. china has said it will introduce emissions trading from 2017 and net greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. the united states' carbon emissions are reduced by the use of liquefied natural gas. europe has done a lot to reduce emissions. in the future, special attention will have to be paid to the transport sector, the second largest emitter of greenhouse gases. there are cost-effective clean technologies and alternative fuels. you just have to put them in. the international civil aviation organisation (icao) and the international maritime organisation (imo) need to reach international agreements to achieve emissions reductions, and the commission is working on a new approach to reducing emissions from ships. the need for common rules in global industries is underlined.
mr president, i would like to appeal to everyone not to take this issue on the agenda this week because indeed, as has been mentioned, the delegation will travel at the end of this week and it will be the first ever parliamentary association committee meeting with georgia. it would be very damaging to take positions now. we will certainly have a possibility to discuss with our colleagues, both from government and opposition, during that visit. secondly, may i just point out that, when during the previous government a similar case was raised (the closure of imedi television by the government), there was no reaction from the same people who now want to propose a resolution. thirdly, as co-president of the euronest parliamentary assembly, i am very worried that we are damaging our institutional credibility by adopting double standards. we cannot afford that. the situations are serious enough in several eastern partner countries.
mr president, honest and upstanding citizens and businesses have been accustomed to paying their taxes and duties according to their ability to pay, in accordance with the common rules of the game. however, the luxleaks case shows that this is not always the case. if the present situation continues, member states will continue to lose significant amounts of tax revenue and will have to borrow more in order to continue to provide basic services to their citizens. i think the tax administration needs to have enough information, and the citizens need to have enough information, about how much tax companies pay. we have a very wrong attitude at the moment. through many business leaders, this wrong attitude has been passed on to the public. so i take, for example, a small advertisement to attract finnish pensioners to portugal. the ad says: "retire to the algarve in portugal to enjoy low living costs and zero tax. your euro in finland may well be three euros in portugal without the hassle". this is the way in which the finns are being marketed to the portuguese paradise of life, and i think this is a very dangerous attitude which is spreading from the companies to the citizens. we should do something quickly to get rid of this attitude.
mr president, the free movement of people, goods and services is an important european fundamental value, but we know that it is not yet a reality for digital services. too often, digital service stops at the border. this agreement, which has now been negotiated, is a major step towards the abolition of roaming charges, the abolition of roaming charges. it will affect tens of millions of eu citizens and benefit their daily lives, as well as our digital single market. in 2017, roaming charges will be abolished in the european union. parliament would have liked a faster timetable, but it is quite right that time was taken here in that the wholesale regulation was combined with this solution. this is essential if we are to make a sustainable transition to this new situation. it is important that regulation of wholesale prices should be linked to the abolition of roaming charges. i would like to thank once again parliament's negotiator, mrs pilar del castillo vera, for her excellent work and all those who took part in the negotiations, because we know that this was a very demanding task and that it required many negotiations. another important element in this package is that of net neutrality, which will now be implemented in such a way that operators can no longer restrict or slow down traffic on commercial grounds, but that restriction is only accepted on technical grounds, and that is an important principle. now, europe is the first in the world to adopt the principle of net neutrality, and it's a historic step.
in writing. although the resolution adopted today did not include all the points supported by our group, i wanted to vote in favour of adopting the resolution, as i consider it important to take immediate measures at union level to prevent such cases. it requires a united front in parliament. the volkswagen emissions scam has revealed serious problems both within the automotive industry and in the reliability of the regulatory authorities. it is now necessary to take strong action to restore consumer confidence and to ensure that transport policy decisions are based on a true picture of the environmental impact of motoring. the emissions fraud was revealed as a volkswagen case in the american market, but over time it has spread to a pan-european zone that takes away the credibility of the entire automotive industry and the authorities that control it. under the vote, the financial times wrote that the eu commission had been tipped off to systematic emissions cheating as early as 2013, but had ignored it completely. the report by transport & environment also states that the phenomenon of false test results is much wider than nitrogen emission tests. it's time for the auto industry to take responsibility. however, i think it is important that the sanctions are not passed on to the employees.
in writing. the new commission work programme supports innovation that improves well-being. i am particularly pleased with the commission's approach to developing the digital single market and the circular economy. the development of digital services creates new business opportunities and thus new jobs. the commission estimates that the digital single market could generate up to eur 250 billion of additional growth. faster and more comprehensive information networks, together with new innovations, will also significantly improve our well-being and quality of life. for example, ehealth applications allow you to monitor your health at home without having to travel to a health centre. the systems thus allow better health monitoring than before. the main new initiatives presented in the commission's work programme include a circular economy package aimed at making more efficient use of natural resources and thus reducing the amount of waste generated.
mr president, with the eu budget we cannot change the way the world turns. we cannot change that. we can, however, give a signal and do some political steering, and we are giving those signals. our priorities are there: job creation, smes, reinforcing competitiveness, innovation, more money for horizon 2020 and cosme and we want to keep the youth employment initiative. for me it is also very important that we do not forget those who put the bread in our mouths. and i mean literally put the bread in our mouths. the eur 500 million to alleviate suffering in the farm sector as a result of the russian counter-sanctions is not performance-based budgeting, it is necessity-based budgeting. but the world actually did turn around. in respect of the wave of migration, we cannot accept member states fiddling with the way they are supposed to deal with the matter. we need internal solidarity and we need external solidarity.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the debate is closed. the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in south sudan.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, we are in the second reading of this issue, and since 2011 the council could not – and, according to my estimation, never will – modify its request for 28 new judges. but for those who question this, i want to underline that this reform is not just about the number of judges and the dispute that that has arisen about that. this is about ensuring the operating conditions of the eu court system, and the task and role of the general court is crucial for the judicial protection of the citizens. the court of justice of the european union is the court that constantly fosters the rule of law, transparency and fundamental rights. the quality and efficiency of the eu court system should be our highest priority. in the trilogues, parliament has also achieved something historical: this is the very first time that the eu co—legislators are including a clause on gender parity into a regulation that governs an eu institution. the gender parity provision in the regulation is pushed as far as the treaties enable. this is a step; it is a legal innovation that is bound to be only the beginning of a development towards more gender parity in the eu institutions. the court and the member states are committing themselves to gender parity, and it is our task to hold them accountable.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your good cooperation. air quality in europe has not reached its targets, despite the long-known detrimental effects of poor air quality on health and the environment. new and alarming research findings are continually being published. of course, we must remember that the current diesel gate is not helping at all. is it not time, ladies and gentlemen, to make concrete decisions on reducing emissions? the health of the people of europe and our environment need our help now. the commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down the criteria for the selection of the member states. in addition to the usual sulphur dioxide and oxides of nitrogen, ammonia, methane and mercury are included. but also small particles, which, according to the increased research, are more harmful than was once thought. the eu citizens deserve better than what they have now. let's do it for the people.
mr president, in the midst of all this debate, it is worth remembering that the air quality in europe has improved significantly over the last few decades. but we still have big problems: air quality in many cities is badly polluted and people suffer from particulate emissions. so it is a major problem in europe. we can do a lot in the fields of energy, transport, agriculture and urban planning. this is the responsibility of both cities and member states, but we know that european and international action is also needed, because air pollution knows no borders. however, the measures taken must be as effective and cost-effective as possible. there are four shortcomings in this report that i would like to highlight, many of which have already been mentioned here. one of these is methane. there is a risk of overlapping regulation, of bureaucracy, because methane is also treated as a greenhouse gas. therefore, overlapping adjustments should be avoided. the second malfunction is related to ammonia. the legislation is far too high and unrealistic in this respect. thirdly, i would like to mention the mercury which parliament has added to this. mercury is certainly a problem for air pollution and air quality, but it is not good legislation to add mercury to this proposal without a proper impact assessment. we must act as efficiently and effectively as possible. i would also like to mention the amendment by parliament to the binding target of 2025. it is realistic to consider 2025 as such a reference period and to target 2030.
in writing. improving air quality is at the heart of eu regulation. air pollution crosses national borders and causes global problems. the proposal for a directive i am opposed to concerns the regulation of methane emissions. finnish agricultural production, based on relatively small numbers of animals, faces major challenges if methane emissions are regulated strictly and quickly. the imposition of new obligations on a sector struggling with profitability problems is not reasonable without proper research-based planning and adequate financial support. agriculture must play its part in reducing emissions, but in regulating the sector we must face the facts: there is no single magic bullet. there are many sources of emissions, and biological processes inevitably release greenhouse gases. in livestock farming, the reduction package consists of a number of small improvements, for example in feed composition and manure treatment. even a biofuel known to be an effective methane reducer requires at least hundreds of thousands of euros of investment, which few individual farms can afford in current conditions. we need to take decisive action beyond the requirements.
on behalf of the ecr group.– mr president, the schengen area is based on trust between the member states. however, although the same schengen code applies to all member states, its implementation varies from one country to another. the external border does have weak points, and this should not be the case. certain member states have their national entry/exit systems and registered travellers’ programmes, but their usefulness is limited as they do not communicate with each other. while free movement is one of the great achievements of european integration, it also offers many possibilities to criminals, terrorists, human traffickers, illegal immigrants and so on. these risks must be compensated by better management of the external border. the smart borders package does not mean ‘fortress europe’. it is a technological update that enables us to more effectively enforce the legislation and rules that we already have. but the smart borders package is not only about security. it is also about facilitating smoother border crossing. the number of travellers to the european union will grow dramatically. this will mean long queues at border crossing points, if nothing is done. it is also in the interests of bona fide travellers that we bring our border management into the 21st century. if we do not control the external borders we cannot have free movement of people within the european union. this has become evident during the migration crisis, but it would be a true also in a normal situation. the smart borders package is not linked to the current crisis on the external borders of the eu, rather its components are something that should have been in place before the abolition of internal border controls and the creation of the schengen area.
there are blue cards but we are running a little late so we will not accept them at this point, but will take catch-the-eye.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 29 october 2015.
we will contact a technician.
the next item is the report by mr rosati on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of 2015 priorities (2015/2210 (ini) – (a8-0307/2015) and the commission statement on steps towards completing the economic and monetary union (2015/2907(rsp)).
the committee on budgets has been asked to deliver an opinion. madam president, commissioner dombrovskis and minister schmit! i sometimes worry about the way the european parliament works. this concern sometimes extends to a concern about the way the commission works. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr dariusz rosati, for the way he has worked. when we got this assignment, the first draft statement was actually a pretty good piece of paper. it was concise, and there were quite a few issues that i wanted to improve in that context. i was of course concerned that the implementation rate of the country-specific recommendations was almost non-existent, i.e. we produce a lot of papers that we send out to our member states, and then the member states look through these papers. that's it. nothing else comes out of it. we should therefore have focused all our attention on how to improve this process, but something rather strange is happening in this parliament. to use an expression that has now become popular in finland, it suddenly seems as if the moomintroll had left the valley, that is, as if all common sense had also disappeared from the parliament. instead of sticking to a concise paper, an endless stream of proposals comes in that have little to do with the actual task. it is really just a way for members of parliament to show that they are keeping their heads up and doing their job. so we have an irrational process that doesn't lead us forward. the proposal contains everything between heaven and earth, but no improvements to the country-specific recommendations. in this irrational process, the proposals put forward by my colleague, mr sven giegold, which are actually quite reasonable, at least in part, may also be lost. there are also some proposals where we really should think about the future - how the education of young people in the various member states works, for example. how does that fit into our recommendations? to sum up this briefly, i think we should try to gather our moomintrolls so that we would have a little easier and better process in the future as well.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the summer-winter time directive has reached its end. it would be sensible to end up with a directive amendment which would do away with the two-timing system. the clock would only move when moving across time zones. studies have shown that people's sleep is impaired in the spring and fall when clocks are moved. especially for senior citizens and children, it is difficult to get their internal clock in place. studies have shown that changing the time of day also affects people's mood and causes more severe symptoms of depression. treatment of depression today costs a huge amount of money throughout europe. does the commission really want to add this burden to the burden of the member states of europe? in addition to humans, the health impacts on farmed animals are also significant. although russia is not on the high road in this parliament, it is to their credit that they have been able to abandon the summer and winter time arrangements in the past, basing their decision on the welfare of the citizens and animals. if russia can do this, will europe be the backbone? it is time for us to stop playing with the health of people and animals. i am of the opinion that wintertime could even be made permanent and that my country could switch to the central european time zone. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the verts/ale group mr president, i find it absolutely incredible that the commission should reply in its press release that this commission is only concerned with big issues and that therefore the summertime arrangements are nothing to this commission. i find it absolutely unbelievable that the concerns of the citizens, whom this parliament represents, should be treated with such arrogance! every time i post about this on facebook, i get a thousand likes just like that. it means that the citizens really think this is a pretty big deal. i remember this well because my own child was born on the night when the summer time was first changed in my country of finland in the spring of 1981. so it's not going away. the relocation of clocks is causing serious problems for human health. it disrupts the biological clocks of both humans and animals, and this in turn causes unnecessary inconvenience, cost and risk in schools, day-care centres, workplaces and transport. the european union has been very active in regulating the changeover to summertime. the current 2001 directive is already the ninth of its kind. why not think that it is time to issue the tenth and final directive on this subject, which will put the turning of the hands of the clock into history once and for all. this would benefit not only transportation and communications but also people's internal clocks. the consultation of the parliament showed that this is strongly supported by experts in the field of the human internal clock. as the honourable member has said, if russia has given up on moving clocks for the sake of the welfare of people and animals, then we can do the same. (applause) i would like to thank the
for the alde group. mr president, commissioner dombrovskis, who is the chairman of the committee on budgets. we are naturally looking forward with some excitement to the proposals we are expecting from the commission. the tension is due not least to the fact that at the last session in strasbourg we actually discussed the same issue as last year, and it is clear from that that our tendency to ideologise matters led to our being unable to agree on the content. but as we know, macroeconomics is not an exact science, and so i shall concentrate on two different issues in the following. the first question is not really about macroeconomics, but about a medical problem. the european union and, above all, the council seem to be suffering from a kind of schizophrenia in this matter. the rules for the european semester shall be approved by the council. the member states then give the council full latitude to follow up on the decisions they have taken. we thought we had reached the bottom of this development when we found that only nine member states had managed to meet these recommendations in some way. but then it turned out that the next year we were down to seven. this kind of schizophrenia in decision-making we have to somehow manage. the second point i would like to make is that the word asymmetry could actually be used to describe it. what we find in almost all decisions is that the 28 member states are very different in many respects. but at the same time there is a tendency both in parliament and in the commission and the council to take decisions on the basis of the old and bad rule that the same size of socks should be suitable for everyone. that's a bad place to start. we must learn that the asymmetrical forces in the european union are enormously powerful and that we must be able to take decisions that balance these asymmetrical tendencies in a way that keeps this union together. and that we do not need to hear too many cries from, for example, the united kingdom that they wish to leave us. we do not need that kind of discussion in this context.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, i remember very well when commissioner georgieva paid her last visit to the committee on development before she became vice-president responsible for budget matters, and i remember very well that you, madam georgieva, said that if we are not going to address the root causes of the humanitarian crisis, nobody will be able to cope with the cost and suffering of those crises. i think you were absolutely right. of course we all should have seen the signs, which were there already. i must say this time that i am happy to have the luxembourg presidency on board. luxembourg is a small but very consistent donor and development partner, and you should not be shy about the reductions in the development aid budgets in other eu member states. i regret very much that my country, finland, is reducing its development aid by 42%. this is not a reduction; it is a collapse. under these conditions, even commission president juncker said that it is abnormal for member states to cut their development aid budgets. we nevertheless have the trust funds and we have to make the best of them, but i do have a few questions. when we are dealing with emergencies and very urgent situations, how are we going to stick to the principles of aid effectiveness? how are we going to respect country ownership? how are we going to stick to our human rights-based approach to aid? how are we going to avoid fragmentation of aid, which is a plague – however much we try to avoid it? this money is mostly not new money, and we have to understand that it is going to be at the cost of some ongoing activities. how are we going to ensure that there will be complementarity of these trust funds with other funds, and so on?
‒ the vote on the reform of the electoral law of the european union was a wide-ranging debate on the elections to the european parliament and the kind of reforms that should be carried out. the aim of the proposal was to harmonise electoral methods and to make elections as transparent as possible. these are the fundamental objectives that are to be supported. the report made a number of specific references to the detailed electoral legislation which is part of the decision-making powers of the member states. the report dealt in some detail with, among other things, the methods by which the parties in the member states should select candidates for the european elections and how the european party should be seen during the elections. the conduct and procedures of the elections were strongly addressed in the report. the proposal also proposed a common electoral constituency for the whole of the eu, which would lead to some meps being elected outside national quotas. the postal and remote voting systems also offered solutions that were difficult to match with finnish practice. the common sound barrier was also a performance i could not accept. overall, the show was bad. it sought to develop the union in a supranational direction and to weaken the decision-making power of the member states. it is clear that there must be a common framework for the european elections, but we must act within the framework of these already existing rules. there is no need to construct new electoral laws that bypass the national electoral procedures. it is important that we improve existing procedures rather than constantly creating new ones.
for the alde group mr president, the fact is that the tenth wto ministerial conference in december is very important for us and will show once and for all how the doha development agenda package is going to be implemented. we are ready to continue negotiations on the dda, but i can say that we need a new basis, because the current basis has not led to any results and we need to take a more active approach. it is not up to the european union to do this. we have been strongly in favour of doha and we are still actively speaking out for this package, but we should also get the other partners involved. the introduction of the dda would be absolutely desirable from the point of view of international trade, because we should create international rules for trade instead of regional rules. common international rules would bring certainty to this area, as there are now many fragmented bilateral agreements. the resolution of the dda would also be important from our point of view because we are also discussing issues that are of vital importance to us. even if we do not get a solution in the doha format, we will continue to negotiate on the same issues, but possibly separately with more parties. it is of course important that multilateral negotiations can also take place and that we can then move to the next stage of discussing the substance.
motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 128(5) of the rules of procedure will be announced later. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 26 march 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by inês cristina zuber on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on reducing inequalities with a special focus on child poverty (2014/2237(ini)) (a8-0310/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 25 november 2015. written statements (rule 162)
rapporteur.– mr president, my report includes several proposals for strengthening the role of the united nations system in global governance and for improving the possibilities of the european union and its member states to better achieve our foreign policy goals inside the system. the report paves the way for an annual process in which parliament can address the global challenges in a deep and comprehensive way. for me personally, the most important achievements in this report are the recommendations on the substantial strengthening of the economic, social, environmental and developmental dimensions of the un system. according to the report, this must be done in the first instance by means of structural and functional reform of the economic and social council, but we also call on the eu institutions and member states to consider the possibility of strengthening their role in the ecosoc by developing it into a sustainable development council. my draft was more ambitious. i wanted to give the sustainable development council the same kind of status as the security council in dealing with all areas of global cooperation other than security. i proposed that the council would have permanent members: the european union, the usa, japan and the brics countries and rotating ones. these ideas got a lot of support in the negotiations, but not enough in order to be accepted. this basic idea is not a new one: it was originally launched in the rio conference in 1992. it was then watered down by establishing only the commission on sustainable development under the ecosoc. chancellor angela merkel proposed, in a speech to the world economic council in davos in 2009, the creation of a un economic council according to the model of the un security council. i have in mind a council with a wider mandate covering all economic, social, environmental and human development in the world. when barack obama started his term as president of the united states with hillary clinton as his foreign secretary, he introduced the idea of ‘three ds’ in us foreign and security policy: development was lifted to an equal footing with defence and diplomacy. now we should do the same in the european union. in the negotiations on my eu—un report, i felt that those who emphasise the importance of the security dimension of the united nations were reluctant to strengthen the other parts of the un system. i even heard the argument that they do not belong to the area of foreign policy, even if they have a prominent position in the foreign and security policy goals section in the eu treaty and development has a more central role in strengthening security all over the world. in the committee on foreign affairs (afet), a report is going to be drafted on the global security strategy of the eu. i think that we should pay a lot of attention to development issues also in that report. in the case of the eu, the defence pillar cannot have a dominant role. we have to rely more on diplomacy and development.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner šefčovič, i have to ask you to leave. and all four of our audience members up on the stand. one of the objectives of the energy union is to move away from a fossil fuel-driven economy. this in turn will require strategic planning, and it is precisely at this point that the eu does not always achieve its objectives. we have had a rather bad experience in the negotiations where the council was unable to set the concrete objectives. the commission is currently preparing a legislative package on renewable and sustainable energy, bioenergy. we'll have that next year for treatment. as we move towards measures to bring about these changes, we know that we can already introduce a blending percentage for petrol, a so-called blending mandate on e20, i.e. 20% blending, for technical reasons. we can also set similar objectives for diesel. in facing these we must be aware that it has to be done in small steps so that industry somehow follows suit and so that it does not lead to us doing something which then leads to brazil or indonesia having even bigger problems with their forest areas. we therefore need concrete measures and a firm policy.
mr president, the objectives of the energy union - increasing self-sufficiency, reducing energy dependence, reducing dependence on imported energy, cutting emissions, a functioning market - are all extremely important objectives. however, i would like to draw particular attention to one sector which commissioner šefčovič mentioned briefly in his opening speech. it's the transportation sector. if we want to reduce our dependence on oil and fossil fuels, we must also pay greater attention to transport. it accounts for one third of all energy consumption in europe, and we know that transport is very dependent on oil: 94% of transport still uses oil. europe has every chance of becoming a world leader in clean transport. it can be done in a very cost-effective way. we have a lot of opportunities right now. we have advanced biofuels, electricity, hydrogen. new technologies are constantly being developed. it is important that we set targets, realistic targets, and at the same time encourage companies to invest and develop new innovations in clean transport. if we succeed in this, europe will certainly succeed in becoming a world leader and our own industry may benefit considerably from this. i therefore encourage you, commissioner, to take a more active approach to the transport sector. there are many opportunities for the whole of europe. (the speaker agreed to answer the question on the blue card (rule 162 (8)).
the answer to the blue card question. the existence of a functioning energy market in europe is also of course in the interests of consumers. we as legislators must set targets and ensure that competition in europe works. we will build links so that europe does not become an energy island, and this will strengthen the internal energy market, improve competition, increase transparency and also increase consumer choice in energy. i think these are balanced with each other.
mr president, it is important to remember that the decisions of the eu and the member states are also felt beyond the borders of the union. in this respect, it is great that the amendment to emphasize cooperation between the ministries of development and finance and tax administrations was passed. on the other hand, it is regrettable that many good proposals were voted down in committee. one such proposal was that the commission should examine, in the next round of reform of the procurement directive, whether it would be possible to increase the use of tax transparency and accountability criteria in public procurement. for example, construction companies engaged in aggressive tax planning, tax evasion, etc. could be considered to be excluded from public works contracts. this could be a very worthwhile consideration as things develop further.
mr president, we often talk about solidarity in this chamber. the practice, however, is proving to be somewhat different. we remember from the past that before the snake in the tunnel and other animals were invented, member countries devalued against each other very aggressively. that's why the emu system was invented, and we thought, or the most childish of us thought, that it was all in order and done. however, it turned out that this aggressive action against other member countries continued. in this respect, luxembourg's history is quite interesting. it used to be a place where steel and coal were made. when this proved unprofitable after the energy crisis, they started stealing tax revenues from other member countries. this is a bad road, it leads to greater hostility and lack of solidarity between the member states.
madam president, i had a meeting with another commissioner and i am sorry about that. it seems that the time of miracles is not over. or maybe it was not a miracle, but an excellent rapporteur that we had. i offer my congratulations once more. common sense prevailed. we have a budget that focuses on employment, enterprises and the young people of europe. last but not least, we also have a budget that takes account of reality and change in the real world. that, of course, is the huge challenge that the migration flows present us with. it has to be said that, for the first time that i can remember, parliament managed to restore all the cuts that the council wanted to have in the draft 2016 budget. therefore, the result that we have is promising. but i would like to finish by saying that, when we have really exceptional circumstances, they call for exceptional measures. by no means can we see an end to these exceptional times. so it is time to start talking seriously about a full revision, because the budget is really stretching its limits.
in writing. the gender pension gap is due to the pay gap over the working life. equal pensions require equal pay. but the development is worrying. i will take the situation in my home country, finland, as an example. unfortunately, the gender pay gap is not narrowing among young people, but is growing in the private sector and at all levels of education. young women are more likely to work part-time and temporary jobs than young men. even among the younger generations, the woman is still the one who bears the greater responsibility for the home and the children. all of this will affect pay and, eventually, pensions. we need to think of equality between women and men as a lifelong issue. i urge the member states to take real action to tackle the gender pay gap so that today's young people can enjoy an equal pension in decades' time.
in writing. it is very good that the commission has brought up the economic gender gap, which only grows as older people retire. women's lower labour market status than men, the years spent at home with children and also the lower level of education in the over-64 age group have also led to lower pension levels for men. it is also about the reduction of women's autonomy. when your income is low, your opportunities are low. as people age, the need for care increases, but financial resources also limit access to services in many member states. the commission and parliament have unfortunately little in the way of instruments to deal with the pension crisis. i encourage the commission and the member states to continue the debate on the promotion of equality between women and men. the best medicine is to address inequalities in education. family leave and family services also play a major role in enabling women to enter the workforce. if day care is not provided or is expensive, it is natural that the families do not find it attractive for the mother to continue working after the birth of the child. but this is not in the best interests of the mother, the child or society. an ageing europe needs more workers. the best talent must be brought into the labour market, regardless of gender. for example, the world bank has calculated that restricting women's participation in the labour market and in business slows down global economic growth. the study shows that, for example, the gdp of italy and greece is 15% below the level it could be if women's participation in the labour market were at the same level as men's. unfortunately, until the obvious imbalances in the labour market are corrected, there will be no improvement in pensions either.
the question of the blue card. you said at the very end that you question the role of a country like russia. it is not good to see that, after these shocking events, the world, the united states, the european union, russia and even saudi arabia are perhaps finding a common road map. and let's understand that terrorist organizations are global. that's why politics has to be global. why are you now blaming russia, which has shown itself to be constructive?
in writing. ‒ the chemicals legislation is now in the application phase. the core of reach is the agency's assessment of substances of very high concern. it is generally accepted and scientifically proven that dehp causes infertility and irreversible changes in men after even brief exposure. the agency also makes this clear in its positive decision. the commission nevertheless proposes to approve the substance. the ex ante data provided by the applicants were incomplete and the lack of data did not allow a thorough health risk analysis to be carried out. although the burden of proof is on the applicants, the agency completed the application as its own work. the application of reach is a learning process that is still in its early stages. i hope that this objection will send a clear signal to the commission, the council, the applicants and the agency. there's a lot to learn.
in writing. – gue/ngl welcomes the substance of the taxe committee report. it contains useful proposals for greater tax justice and reflects the negative impact of austerity on tax fairness. despite our many contributions to the report's final shape, we abstain in today’s vote for the following reasons: political responsibility for tax dumping in the eu has not been fully established and the report does not call for the necessary prolongation of the current mandate. access to documents remained unsatisfactory by council, commission and member states. multinational corporations have only responded after repeated invitations to taxe, no legal base for sanctions could be established yet and they could not be interrogated thoroughly. moreover, contradictions of the president of the eu commission, jean-claude juncker, during his testimony to taxe were not followed up. substance-wise, core issues lack ambition beyond what the eu commission has proposed already. tax rulings should be made public and tax secrecy laws adjusted. we welcome the idea of consolidation of the tax base. however, we miss a clear commitment to broaden the tax base and we criticise the interim period before consolidation which allows for cross border loss/profit offsetting and no further backstops to prevent tax competition between eu countries.
the question of the blue card. i would like to ask you if you really do not see any good in this state summit, one of whose ideas was indeed to stem the flow of migration towards europe? that was the idea of that meeting. for example, there were very good projects to develop population registers and identity cards, because the european union does want to - i do not necessarily agree with this - but the european union now wants to return unwanted migrants to their home countries. can't you see that this is a good thing?
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, since may 2015, over 100 human rights defenders have had to flee burundi, which has been very much complicated by the fear of repercussions against their families. indeed, in his speech made on 23 october this year, president pierre nkurunziza reminded the community in exile that they should not consider themselves superior to their fellow citizens still inside the country, especially since most of them left their families inside the country. this is truly horrific. i thank the presidency-in-office for following up the consultation process under article 96 of the cotonou agreement by inviting the burundian government to a dialogue on human rights. impunity indeed is a huge problem in burundi, as perpetrators of violence often do not have to face the consequences of their acts. the burundian authorities must swiftly act here if they want to stop the spiralling of violence, and i believe it is a very appropriate move that the eu, like the us, has introduced personal targeted sanctions against those who are known to be perpetrators of violence. so i very much agree with the united nations’ intention to consider all possible options against those in burundi whose acts and statements contribute to the ongoing violence and hamper a peaceful solution. we must indeed avoid a second rwanda. we should also pay attention to the fact that the african union has started contingency planning for troop deployments, because that is what now seems to be very necessary to calm down and pacify the situation. one final thing is that there needs to be a national dialogue between all parties.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, despite all the shortcomings and challenges in georgia, i believe that it is one eastern partner country that is showing that it is very committed to the european future. five years ago i personally would not really have believed that one day – i could not stop the thought – this country may indeed become a member of the european union. of course, at the moment this is still far away, but i think the country is making a great effort and we have to support its european choice because, as we know, the long shadow of russia is on every eastern partner country. compared with the previous regime, i believe that the reforms have continued and there have been results. i also believe that despite certain shortcomings the justice reform has continued, and it is quite right that we should pay attention to the rustavi 2 case in order to show that we do indeed take a very tough line where media freedoms and the independence of the justice system are concerned. we do have some hope and we have some good signals that the constitutional court has lately, even in this case, been showing considerable independence in the face of political pressure, and that is what we have to support. and, what is more, i believe that we as the european parliament have a great task of supporting georgia and the other eastern partner associating countries to help them become a part of our community.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, a very serious opinion poll has been conducted in moldova recently. only 39% of the respondents would vote positively on moldova’s accession to the european union, whereas accession to the eurasian economic union is favoured by almost 43% of interviewed citizens. this is, to a large extent, the outcome of a situation where the public have started to be fed up with the european union. why? because the european union is used as a cover-up for very dirty practices in daily politics. i think it is extremely important that today, the two european families – the european people’s party and the social democrats – have acknowledged that they have a responsibility and that they need to use their contacts with their moldovan counterparts in order to explain that what is going on is no longer possible. we need to make sure that impunity will not prevail in this incredible banking scandal. it is almost impossible to imagine that 15% of the gdp of this very poor country has been put into some wrong and private pockets, and we need to make sure that the culprits and the perpetrators are brought to justice. the justice system has to be able to perform its function.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– mr president, it is very important that more attention has been paid recently to the impact of fragility and conflict on people and their lives. we have been able to come to the conclusion that people living in fragile states, in conflicts and in emergency situations are in fact totally deprived of what they need to establish their lives later if the situation becomes calmer and they can resume living ordinary lives. indeed, we do not know how long people will have to live in camps, and so we need to bring them hope. i agreed with the commissioner when he said that we need both informal and formal education. one bright example i saw in zaatari camp in jordan was that a finnish ngo called finn church aid actually had a circus school, one for boys and one for girls, where they learned skills, cooperation and to trust their own bodies through acting in a creative way. so let us hope that the four per cent that the commissioner has already promised for next year will be very well used for education in emergency situations.
blue-card question.– i would not deny that we do also need private resources for education, and mr gill has given some good examples. however, mr gill, do you not also believe that we need to make sure the developing countries raise the necessary revenue from taxation and other sources so that they can provide public education too? do you not think that international organisations which are supporting governments, such as global partnership for education, are doing a fantastic job by trying to make sure that good-quality education is available for all children?
mr president, the overall error rate in payments has been consistently high year after year. we need to get things better, and we need to make a real change. if this is not the case, the conditions for the discharge should be assessed more critically. the court of auditors has already for 20 years issued a negative opinion on the legality and regularity of the payments. consider what would happen in a private company if similar statements were given regularly and routinely to the owners of the company every year. but it would be a matter of time before the people responsible were found, and the consequences would be severe. we must adopt a new and more frugal approach to the management of public funds, and we must be more rigid and, finally, more responsible. public funds must be treated in the same way as a single, diligent person manages his own funds.
madam president, i would like to thank the court for this interesting report and especially for twining together budget efficiency and budgetary control, because they go hand in hand. value for money is an essential phrase for both. for the first time the court put at least some emphasis on the performance of the budget, instead of mainly pointing to errors. this is what we have been asking for: more transparency in the use of money and finding systematic weaknesses in different areas of spending. but this is only the beginning. so i encourage the court to continue on the path it has chosen and to go much further next year. we need total transparency and country-specific information. that would be the way forward in achieving a budget focused on results and, not just that, to be able to justify to our citizens how we are dealing with our finances.
no explanations of vote concerning urgencies.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the votes and the details of the votes: see minutes)
in writing. - civilized society takes care of the weakest. animal welfare is something that all of europe must pay more attention to. unfortunately, many member states have not implemented even the current, rather lax, animal welfare legislation. the problems of overproduction and outright cruelty are still common, for example, in beef production. in many member states, pets suffer because the methods of controlling, for example, stray dog populations are downright barbaric. it is the responsibility of the legislators, the commission and the member states to ensure that these irregularities are dealt with without delay. the cultural basis should not be defended, let alone support through agricultural subsidies, production methods or the killing of animals for entertainment purposes. investments in animal welfare do not always mean higher production costs in agriculture. often, productivity improvements, reduced medication use and reduced infant mortality are also achieved when the species-specific behavioural requirements of animals are better addressed. it should also be noted that consumers are willing to pay more for products that have been developed with animal welfare in mind. for example, in my home country of finland, 70% of consumers see the conditions in which farm animals are kept as problematic. one solution would be to create common species-specific criteria for animal welfare. the consumer who is interested in ethical consumption would benefit from a label that guarantees at least a reasonable level of animal welfare. at the same time, producers would not have to compete with unfair production methods, but could invest in quality and welfare.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament. (the sitting was closed at 1 p.m.)
in writing. the commission's new circular economy strategy seems to have been thrown in the wind. i wonder why the commission does not set binding targets for reducing food waste, but leaves it to the member states in the proposal for a waste directive. the commission's proposal does not solve the problems of unsustainable resource use. if we really want to change our production and consumption to a circular economy, we have a big change ahead of us. different meters and indicators are necessary. the mere statement that food waste is halved has a direct effect on the behavior of very few people. the smiling face on the dining room wall is concrete. the mere reference to un declarations is not. i hope that in the near future we will have long and thorough discussions about when that smiling face is going to be put on the wall.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, cities should indeed invest in smooth transport. it is important for the economy, the environment and people in general that urban transport runs smoothly and is as efficient as possible. it saves both money and people's time. in future, cities will need all modes of transport. we need cars, rail, walking, cycling, water transport. there are different opportunities in different parts of europe. the epp group therefore considers it important that cities themselves should be able to choose the best solutions that are most effective and best for their own area. it was good to hear about the commission's priorities, they are very much on the right track. in particular, digitalisation gives us a lot of opportunities for smart transport solutions, carsharing, new consumer-friendly services such as uber. these are opportunities worth taking advantage of. new technology also makes transport more environmentally friendly.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, urban transport accounts for a quarter of transport's co2 emissions and up to 70% of other transport emissions. listening to these numbers, you're gonna run out of oxygen and weaken. the volkswagen affair, which boiled over in the autumn, is a tragedy, but it has at least opened our eyes. i am sorry, however, that there was no genuine willingness on the part of all the groups in this parliament to set clear objectives. subsidiarity is an important principle, but too often it is hidden behind it when active action is needed instead of sharing the pain. the aim is to give car pleasure, the main source of urban traffic emissions and the cause of accidents, noise and congestion, a sacred place on the altar of european urban life, to which the comforts, habitability and health and safety of the inhabitants of cities are sacrificed. i hope the commission will be prepared to take a more courageous step towards the member states.
blue-card question.– i would just like to ask my colleague if he is aware that it is friends from his party in the finnish government who were celebrating this deep cut in the development budget by 42%. i wonder if he agrees with his colleagues from finland that this was the right move, as i did not quite get the point.
mr president, as the european year for development is now drawing to a close, and ambitious negotiation for a climate agreement is still going on, i would like to draw attention to the fact that we need to invest more in adaptation to climate change in the poorest countries of the world, such as the sahel countries of africa. these countries are the most vulnerable, and their populations will be totally unprotected as climate change progresses. i believe that many of the market forces are active on the side of mitigation of climate change, but there is much less attention to adaptation. this is a big task for our development efforts. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– thank you very much for your statement. i believe that the netherlands is in a position to help the really poor countries of the world to adapt to climate change because it also masters certain technology. what is expected of us in the climate change negotiations now is that the rich countries make available the technical innovations that they have developed. notably, i would say, know—how in controlling floods, but also investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency, are things that the netherlands can very well transmit to the poorest countries.
deputising for the author.– mr president, the oral question was adopted by the committee on development on 22 september 2015, together with a winding-up resolution on the protection of the virunga national park in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). i am very pleased to present it on behalf of the committee. this debate on the protection of virunga national park in the north kivu province of the drc comes at a critical time, as just three days ago, on sunday night, the ugandan rebels of allied democratic forces attacked a military headquarters of the congolese army in eringeti and the city itself in the territory of beni, close to the northern border of the park. this illustrates the violence and insecurity in the whole region of eastern drc and particularly in the north kivu province, where the park is located. on monday, the committee on development organised a joint hearing with the subcommittee on security and defence on the links between development and security. yesterday, the committee received the high representative/vice-president of the commission, mrs mogherini, who again stressed the link between development and security. i would also like to stress here, in this debate on the protection of the virunga national park, the link between development, ecology and security. the resolution that we will vote on in strasbourg in two weeks’ time stresses the absolute need to protect the virunga national park, a unesco world heritage site. it stresses that irreversible damage to the virunga national park could occur as the result of exploration and exploitation of oil or other activities. currently, fishing in lake edward generates an estimated usd 30 million per year to the benefit of the local communities which live near the park. this figure is projected to double as a result of sustainable fisheries created by the virunga alliance, the park’s clean energy initiative. mountain gorilla tourism alone could generate usd 38 million per year and create thousands of jobs. i think we should do more to protect local communities, as well as the endangered species in the park, such as the mountain gorillas and okapi. i recall that oil exploration and exploitation are not compatible with unesco world heritage status. the message of our resolution is very clear. we call on the commission and the member states to further address the root causes of armed conflicts and corruption and to support sustainable development and peace—building strategies in the park and the surrounding region. we also urge the commission, the member states, the drc and any oil company interested in drilling for oil to protect the current boundaries and the neighbouring areas of the virunga national park from the exploitation of fossil fuels.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted an opinion. mr president, first of all, congratulations and thanks to all the negotiators of the european union, commissioner cañete and the host country france for the climate agreement reached in paris this weekend. it is a very significant step on a global scale. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. thirty per cent of europe's energy is spent on transport, which is highly dependent on fossil fuels. the committee considers it important to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy sources in a very technology-neutral way throughout europe the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental performance of shipping. we know that renewable fuels are already available in aviation and the committee on transport is encouraging europe to open up the market to renewable fuels in aviation in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for their good work. but the energy union is a vast legislative project and there is a risk that we will sometimes forget some of the decisions we have taken in the past. that is why i would like to complete the list of five intelligent things that my colleague mr turmes has come up with. we need intelligent networks and markets and an intelligent foreign policy, but we also need intelligent politicians, and for that reason it is worth recalling what we decided in the context of the eluc file. in that context, we did not pull the rug out from underground and land-based second-generation fuels. now in paragraph 122 there is a bit of bad writing where we are actually saying that we are banning or want to ban all land-based biofuels, and that is of course a mistake, but, as cañete said, we need a good and robust process.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. this is a big mess, and it's really about three or four things. firstly, it is the commission's promise, juncker's promise to change the system. he gave that last summer and the commission claims that there has actually been an attempt to change this, and on that point the commission is behaving in a way that i recognise. all five of my children have behaved in the same way: when they don't get their way, they stomp on the floor and say, "i'm not going to do anything". that's not a very mature way to approach this issue. the second issue we have up for consideration is actually about glyphosate, and there are actually studies from the united states, from sweden and from canada that glyphosate is likely to be carcinogenic. so it's not an easy question. it's not something we can just blow away. the objection that has just been raised relates to this very question, but i must say that my colleague mr girling is right about the third question. there is no possibility in this context of using our legal methods, so to speak. that is why i was so obliged to ask the commission to try to behave as if it were a full-grown body and to take its responsibilities on glyphosate. my group will not vote for this objection, but at the same time i have great sympathy for the concern felt by the greens in the s&d group about this idea.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 december 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by alessandra mussolini, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation in the fight against serious crime and terrorism between the united arab emirates and europol (10510/2015 – c8—0275/2015 – 2015/0809(cns)) (a8—0351/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 december 2015.
the next item is the report by gabriel mato, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a new cfp: structure for technical measures and multiannual plans (2015/2092(ini)) (a8—0328/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 15 december 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the one-minute speeches on matters of political importance (rule 163).
the case is closed.
the question of the blue card. member giegold's analysis of this debate was sharp and good, but it almost completely missed the point of what the benefits of this euro area have been. the fact that interest rates have been low and that there has been a certain degree of predictability has indeed been a great benefit to the public. but you did not hesitate to add the social dimension to this reform. could you elaborate on that idea so we can find common ground?
mr president, there has been an interesting debate here and in general only the negative aspects of economic and monetary union and the single currency have been brought to light. perhaps i would also venture to say that it has increased predictability and, in fact, citizens have benefited from record low interest rates. but there is a flip side to this coin, and it's a darker side that's been much discussed here. the weakness of the emu is really our own fault. we have been too fragmented in our approach to banking regulation. the same is not true of fiscal policy, and the structural weaknesses of many countries remain a problem.
in writing. ‒ the energy union is an exceptionally ambitious project. i would like to encourage the commission and the council to take the project in a concrete direction and to find common ground between the often very different views of the member states. there are understandable passions in energy policy. consumption and production patterns vary considerably between member states. energy production is at the heart of the fight against climate change. we should be open to new forms of energy production and spend enough money on developing more environmentally friendly technologies. every production method has an impact on the environment. the reduction of these must be the starting point. at the same time, thinking must be based on increasing energy efficiency and reducing energy consumption. energy efficiency in industry, housing and transport must be continuously improved. a negawatt is the best watt. the energy production system shall be so decentralised and versatile that malfunctions or problems with the availability of a single fuel do not jeopardise the system's functioning. each country should secure its own energy supply while being part of the wider european whole. member states must exploit their own environmentally friendly strengths, whether it be biomass, wind, waves or sun. the paris agreement shows the way out of fossil fuels. you have to have the courage to walk, even if it's not going to be easy. european confidence and the capacity of the electricity transmission networks are not measured on a beautiful summer day, but on the coldest winter days, when imports plummet and sudden outages occur. the energy union will not be built in a day, a month, a year, hardly even a decade. it should be seen as part of a process whereby eu countries are building new and more sustainable energy infrastructure in small steps, every day.
in writing. ‒ the parliament's opinion on the energy union takes the link between climate change and the action needed in the energy sector very well. i am pleased that the report adopted by parliament takes account of the benefits of district heating and biofuels. parliament's position also rightly advocates the development and expansion of district heating networks and the use of various clean (renewable) technologies in heating. we have extensive district heating networks and clean technology in finland, so the trend is in the right direction for us. parliament called for a shift from coal and gas to biomass with a higher security of supply and noted that biomass based on sustainable forest management could contribute to the achievement of the 2030 climate and energy targets. in mid-spring, the commission will publish a strategy for heating and cooling. it must again take into account the contribution of biomass energy to the decoupling from fossil fuels, alongside the potential for energy savings.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, a historic climate agreement was reached in paris, and thanks to all those who have worked on this important issue - the agreement. so now we've finally got the paperwork down and the real work can begin. i hope that humanity is wise enough to take active steps towards tangible change. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not left behind. it must be remembered that warming of more than two degrees will make many parts of the world uninhabitable, and if this is allowed to happen, we have seen only a small flow of refugees for the one million people coming to europe at the moment, because climate refugees are talking about hundreds of millions of people. to prevent climate change and save the planet, every action in our own lives is valuable.
mr president, it is a pleasure to be working for a fairer tax system. i'm also glad that there are many of us. a company that does not pay taxes in the country where it operates enjoys the services of honest businesses and citizens. tax evaders have access to trained labor, to public services, to highways and railroads built with other people's taxes, and so on. in other words, tax-avoiding companies and the bodies responsible for their activities are the worst kind of pimps, and the activities of these pimps must be made public so that citizens and consumers can boycott them. i believe that tax-avoiding companies should be completely excluded from public procurement everywhere, so that honest people have a better chance of competing.
on behalf of the verts/ale group.– madam president, we are preparing for the first ever world humanitarian summit in a situation where international humanitarian law is severely threatened. if we think about all those attacks against civilian institutions, mainly hospitals, in afghanistan, in syria and in yemen, it is outrageous what is happening to civilians who are already suffering from wars and conflicts. international humanitarian law is under threat in another way, and i am afraid we have a problem within this house in relation to the evolution of that law. it has now been clearly shown that rape is used as a systematic weapon in conflicts and wars, and the women and girls who are raped under those circumstances have the unequivocal right to all sexual and reproductive services, including the right to safe abortion, regardless of national legislation. it is our duty to prevent cruelty, and one important aspect of that is that we have to call for the right to safe abortion in these situations. those who deny the women and girls in question this right are simply inhuman – and we have to think about this when we vote tomorrow. can i just mention that there is an idea for establishing a new international fund? i do not think we should make payments to that fund compulsory because the time is not ripe for that idea.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to paragraph 114 of this excellent report. however, i think there is a problem. it condemns the practice of surrogacy and actually calls for the prohibition of this practice. i believe that it is too early to say whether it should be prohibited or regulated in another way. i just want to draw your attention to the fact that it is being discussed in several international institutions, including the hague conference on private international law. if we go directly towards a prohibition of surrogacy, we may endanger the rights of children that are nevertheless going to be born into the world through this practice. so we have to be very cautious with it. it needs to be regulated, but it should also be dealt with by parliamentary committees before we jump into a final decision on whether to prohibit it or regulate it in another way.
mr president, one important defect in our migration policy is that europe is unable to return those people whose asylum applications have been rejected. it is clear that this fact encourages the use of the asylum system as a channel of economic migration. in most cases, applicants wait for the decision in open reception facilities. when they learn that their application has been rejected they very often disappear and remain in the schengen area as illegal immigrants. sometimes they vanish from reception centres before they are even registered and fingerprinted. all this undermines the credibility of the asylum system. it would be a good idea to always detain asylum seekers for as long as their case is being processed. if this is against the existing eu law, then we should change that eu law.
mr president, the president of the european council should facilitate bringing together different member states’ positions in order to find sustainable and humane solutions. he should also stand up for common european values, and he should not give way to using his position as a tool for advancing national politics. his proposal to detain refugees arriving in the eu for 18 months goes not only against eu law, but also against international law. talk of detaining refugees further deepens the gaps and divisions between member states and is thus very harmful at times when common eu asylum and migration policies are needed. instead of populist responses like this, a comprehensive approach is needed in order to tackle the humanitarian crisis the world is currently facing.
i have received eight motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 december 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by bodil valero, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on arms export: implementation of common position 2008/944/cfsp (2015/2114(ini)) (a8—0338/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 17 december 2015. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by barbara lochbihler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part (05432/2015 – c8—0062/2015 – 2013/0440(nle)) (a8—0339/2015),– the report by barbara lochbihler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part (2015/2096(ini)) (a8—0342/2015), and– a report by sandra kalniete, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of the protocol to the framework agreement on comprehensive partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the socialist republic of vietnam, of the other part, to take account of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (13079/2014 – c8—0282/2014 – 2014/0222(nle)) (a8—0340/2015).
in writing. ‒ the the european parliament's resolution on the completion of the european economic and monetary union was voted on thursday. the resolution itself is partly technical and calls for parliament to be consulted in the process of finalising economic and monetary union. parliament wants 'democratic control' to 'hear the voice of the people'. so this is referring to parliament itself. i do not think it is an exaggeration to say that by adopting this report we are also accepting the five-presidents' plan for the development of the euro area. this would mean increasing economic solidarity between member states and concentrating decision-making at a supranational level. the five presidents' plan aims, among other things, at a solidarity-based banking union, a common euro area budget with permanent funds transfer systems and a common treasury. these are goals i cannot accept. the problems of the euro area are due to the fact that the single currency involves too many different economies. it's not the optimal currency area. the five presidents' plan will further exacerbate the economic and political problems caused by the single currency. the deeper integration of the euro area will take decision-making power from the governments of the euro area countries to a supranational level, far from the member states and their citizens. this is a development i cannot accept. that is why i voted against the report.
